## 2017-09-26

- Measuring performance:
    - __Throughput__ or __bandwidth__: the total amount of work done in a given time.
    - __Execution time__ or __response time__ or __elapsed time__ or __wall clock time__: the time between the start and completion of a task.
    - __CPU execution time__ or __CPU time__: the actual time the CPU spends computing for a specific task.
    - __User CPU time__: the CPU time spent in a program itself.
    - __System CPU time__: the CPU time spent in the operating system performing tasks on behalf of the program.
- __Clock cycles__: the discrete time intervals in the hardware.
    - __Clock period__: the length of each clock cycle.
    - __Clock rate__: the inverse of the clock period.
- __Clock cycles per instruction (CPI)__: average number of clock cycles per instruction for a program or program fragment.
- __Instruction count__: the number of instructions executed by the program.
- __CPU time__ = instruction count &times; CPI &times; clock period = instruction count &times; CPI / clock rate.
- Source of energy consumption:
    - _Dynamic energy_ (major): energy that is consumed when transistors switch states from 0 to 1 and vice versa.
    - _Static energy__ or _leakage_: leakage current that flows even when a transistor is off.
- __Dynamic energy__: power (watts) &prop; capacitive load &times; voltage<sup>2</sup> &times; frequency switched.
- Further lowering of the voltage appears to make the system unstable and make the transistors too leaky.
- The computer is evaluated using a set of __benchmarks__-programs specifically chosen to measure performance.
- __SPEC (System Performance Evaluation Cooperative)__: _CPU benchmark_ & _power benchmark_.
- A CINT2006 or CFP2006 summary measurement is obtained by taking the _geometric mean_ of the SPEC ratios.
- __Power benchmark__: overall ssj_ops per watt = $(\sum_{i=0}^{10} \text{ssj_ops}_i) / \sum_{i=0}^{10} \text{power}_i$
- Fallacies and pitfalls:
    - Expecting the improvement of one aspect of a computer to increase overall performance by an amount proportional to the size of the improvement.
    - Computers at low utilization use little power.
    - Designing for performance and designing for energy efficiency are unrelated goals.
    - Using a subset of the performance equation as a performance metric.
- __MIPS (millions of instructions per second)__ = clock rate &times; 10<sup>-6</sup> / CPI does not take into account:
    - Differences of ISAs between computers.
    - Differences of complexity between instructions.
- The execution time of the program a er making the improvement is given by the following simple equation known as __Amdahl's Law__.
- Execution time is the only valid and unimpeachable measure of performance.
