## 2017-10-03

- __Data race__: the results of the program can change depending on how events happen to occur.
- A set of hardware primitives with the ability to atomically read and modify a memory location.
- __Atomic exchange__ or __atomic swap__ interchanges a value in a register for a value in memory.
- A processor tries to set the lock by doing an exchange of 1, which is in a register, with the memory address corresponding to the lock.
- A pair of instructions in which the second instruction returns a value showing whether the pair of instructions was executed as if the pair were atomic.
- Instructions: __load linked (ll)__ and __store conditional (sc)__.
- If the contents of the memory location specified by the load linked are changed before the store conditional to the same address occurs, then the store conditional fails.
- Translating and starting a program: compiler, assembler, linker, loader, dynamically linked library (DLL).
- __Pseudoinstruction__: a common variation of assembly language instructions o en treated as if it were an instruction in its own right.
- Pseudoinstructions give MIPS a richer set of assembly language instructions than those implemented by the hardware.
- The assembler turns the assembly language program into an _object file_, which is a combination of machine language instructions, data, and information needed to place instructions properly in memory.
- Assemblers keep track of labels used in branches and data transfer instructions in a __symbol table__.
- The object file for UNIX systems typically contains six distinct pieces: _object file header_, _text segment_, _static data segment_, _relocation information_, _symbol table_, _debugging information_.
- __Linker__ or __link editor__ takes all the independently assembled machine language programs and "stitches" them together.
- There are three steps for the _linker_:
    1. Place code and data modules symbolically in memory.
    2. Determine the addresses of data and instruction labels.
    3. Patch both the internal and external references.
- When the linker places a module in memory, all _absolute_ references must be _relocated_ to reflect its true location.
- The linker produces an _executable file_ that can be run on a computer.
- __Executable file__: a functional program in the format of an object file that contains no unresolved references.
- __Loader__: a systems program that places an object program in main memory so that it is ready to execute.
- Disadvantages of _statically_ linked libraries:
    - The statically linked program keeps using the outdated libraries unless relinked again.
    - The library can be large relative to the program.
- __Dynamically linked libraries (DLLs)__: library routines are not linked and loaded until the program is run.
- The lazy procedure linkage version of DLLs, where each routine is linked only after it is called.
- The linker/loader finds the desired routine, remaps it, and changes the address in the indirect jump location to point to that routine.
- Java is _compiled_ first to instructions that are easy to interpret: the __Java bytecode__ instruction set.
- An __interpreter__, e.g. __Java Virtual Machine (JVM)__, is a program that simulates an instruction set architecture.
- __Just In Time compiler (JIT)__: a compiler that operates at runtime, translating the interpreted code segments into the native code of the computer.
