## 2017-09-27

- Lemma: Let $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n,\psi$ be propositional logic formulae. $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n\vDash\psi$ iff $\vDash\phi_1\implies(\phi_2\implies...(\phi_n\implies\psi))$.
- __Validity__: Let $\phi$ be a propositional logic formula. $\phi$ is __valid__ if $\vDash\phi$.
- Lemma: A clause $D = L_1\lor L_2\lor...\lor L_m$ is __valid__ iff there is a propositional atom $p$ such that $L_i$ is $p$ and $L_j$ is $\lnot p$ for some $1\le i,j\le m$.
- __Satisfiability__: Let $\phi$ be a propositional logic formula. $\phi$ is __satisfiable__ if it evaluates to T under some valuation.
- Proposition: Let $\phi$ be a propositional logic formula. $\phi$ is satisfiable iff $\lnot\phi$ is not valid.
- __Conjunctive normal form (CNF)__: a formula $C$ is in _conjunctive normal form (CNF)_ has the following form:
    - __Literal__: $L::==p|\lnot p$
    - __Clause__: $D::==L|L\lor D$
    - __Formula__: $C::==D|D\land C$
- From truth table to CNF:
    - For each line $l$ where $\phi$ evaluates to F, construct a clause $\psi_l$ as $\psi_l = L_{l,1}\lor L_{l,2}\lor...\lor L_{l,n}$, where $L_{l,i}=\lnot p_i$ if $p_j$ is T; otherwise, $L_{l,i}=p_i$.
    - Then $\phi\equiv\psi_1\land\psi_2\land...\land\psi_m$ where $\psi$ are constructed for every line evaluating $\phi$ to F.
- Given a propositional logic formula in CNF, we can check the validity of the formula in _linear_ time.
- Any propositional logic formula can be transformed to CNF by three steps:
    - Remove every implications via $\phi\implies\psi\equiv\lnot\phi\lor\psi$.
    - Push every negation to literals via De Morgan's laws.
    - Apply law of distribution.
- Algorithm for checking the satisfiability of a propositional logic formula:
    - Compute a CNF formula $\psi$ such that $\psi=\lnot\phi$.
    - Check the validity of $\psi$.
    - Return $\phi$ is satisfiable if $\psi$ is not valid; otherwise, $\phi$ is unsatisfiable.
- Given a propositional logic formula in CNF, it is easy to check its validity, but hard to check its satisfiability.
- __Horn formula__: a propositional logic formula $H$ of the following form:
    - $P::==\bot|\top|p$
    - $A::==P|P\land A$
    - __Horn clause__: $C::==A\implies P$
    - $H::==C|C\land H$
- Algorithm for checking the satisfiability of a Horn formula $\phi$:
    - Mark $\top$ if it occurs in $\phi$.
    - If there is a Horn clause $P_1\land P_2\land...\land P_n\implies Q$ in $\phi$ s.t. all $P_i$ for $1\le i\le n$ are marked, then mark $Q$.
    - Return $\phi$ is unsatisfiable if $\bot$ is marked; otherwise, $\phi$ is satisfiable.
- __Equisatisfiability__: $\phi$ and $\psi$ are __equisatisfiable__ if $\phi$ is satisfiable iff $\psi$ is satisfiable.
- __Tseitin transformation__: For every propositional logic formula $\phi$, there is a propositional logic formula $\psi$ in CNF s.t. $\phi$ and $\psi$ are _equisatisfiable_.
