## 2017-09-20

- __Contradictions ($\bot$)__: sentences of the form $φ ∧ ¬φ$ or $¬φ ∧ φ$.
- Proof rules for connectives (continued):
	- __Negation introduction ($\lnot$i)__: $\frac{\boxed{\phi \\ \vdots \\ \bot}}{\lnot\phi}$ $\lnot$i
	- __Negation elimination ($\lnot$e)__: $\frac{\phi\ \lnot\phi}{\bot}$ $\lnot$e
- __Contradiction elimination ($\bot$e)__: $\frac{\bot}{\phi}$ $\bot$e
- __Reductio ad absurdum (RAA)__: $¬p⇒\bot\vdash p$ (RAA)
- __Law of the excluded middle (LEM)__: $\vdash p∨¬p$ (LEM)
- Proof rules for natural deduction:
	- Fundamental: $\land$i, $\land$e, $\lor$i, $\lor$e, $\lnot$i, $\lnot$e, $\lnot\lnot$e, $\implies$i, $\implies$e, $\bot$e
	- Derived: $\lnot\lnot$i, MT, RAA, LEM
- __Provable equivalence ($\dashv\vdash$)__: $\phi$ and $\psi$ are __provably equivalent__ ($\phi\dashv\vdash\psi$) if both $\phi\vdash\psi$ and $\psi\vdash\phi$.
- __Indirect proofs__ (or __proof by contradiction__):
	- An argument for a proposition that shows its negation to be incompatible with a previously accepted or established premise.
	- _Non-constructive_. We do not show why $\phi$ holds; we only know $\lnot\phi$ is impossible.
	- _Intuitionistic logicians_ are averse to prove indirectly.
	- Examples of proof rules: $\lnot\lnot$e, RAA, LEM.
- __Well-formedness__:
	- A __well-formed__ formula is constructed by applying the following rules finitely many times: atom, $\lnot$, $\land$, $\lor$, $\implies$.
	- Backus Naur form (BNF): $\phi∶∶=p|(¬\phi)|(\phi∧\phi)|(\phi∨\phi)|(\phi⇒\phi)$
	- __Inversion principle__: the construction process of a well-formed formula can always be inverted.
	- Subformulae are the well-formed formulae corresponding to its parse tree.
- A __valuation__ or __model__ of a formula $\phi$ is an assignment from each proposition atom in $\phi$ to a truth value.
- __Semantic sequent__: $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vDash \psi$
	- __Holds__ if for every valuations where $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n$ are true, $\psi$ is also true.
	- Reads $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n$ __semantically entail__ $\psi$ (__semantic entailment__).
- __Soundness theorem__: If $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vdash \psi$ is valid, then $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vDash \psi$ holds.
- Proof for soundness: proof by introduction.
- __Completeness theorem__: If $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vDash \psi$ holds, then $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vdash \psi$ is valid.
- Proof for completeness:
	- Assume $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vDash \psi$ holds.
	- $\vDash \phi_1 \implies (\phi_2 \implies (...(\phi_n \implies \psi)))$ holds.
	- $\vdash \phi_1 \implies (\phi_2 \implies (...(\phi_n \implies \psi)))$ is valid.
	- $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vdash \psi$ is valid.
- The natural deduction proof system is both _sound_ and _complete_, i.e. $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vdash \psi$ is _valid_ iff $\phi_1,\phi_2,...,\phi_n \vDash \psi$ _holds_.
- __Semantic equivalence ($\equiv$)__: $\phi$ and $\psi$ are __semantically equivalent__ ($\phi\equiv\psi$) if both $\phi\vDash\psi$ and $\psi\vDash\phi$.
- A sentence (formula) $\phi$ such that $\vDash\phi$ is called a __tautology__, and $\phi$ is a __valid__ formula.
