## 2017-10-25

- Let $\phi$ be a predicate logic formula, $l$ and $l'$ two environments that agree on free variables of $\phi$. Then, $M \vDash_l \phi$ holds iff $M \vDash_{l'} \phi$.
- A __sentence__ is a predicate logic formula without free variables.
- Let $\phi$ be a sentence. Either $M \vDash_l \phi$ holds for every environment $l$, or $M \vDash_l \phi$ does not hold for every environment $l$. Hence, we write $M \vDash \phi$ or $M \not\vDash \phi$.
- Let $\Gamma$ be a set of predicate logic formulae and $\psi$ a predicate logic formula.
    - $\Gamma\vDash\psi$ __holds__ (or $\Gamma$ __semantically entails__ $\psi$) if for every model $M$ and environment $l$, $M \vDash_l \psi$ holds whenever $M \vDash_l \phi$ holds for every $\phi\in\Gamma$.
    - $\psi$ is __satisfiable__ if there is a model $M$ and an environment $l$ such that $M \vDash_l \psi$ holds.
    - $\psi$ is __valid__ if $M \vDash_l \psi$ holds for every model $M$ and environment $l$ where we can compute $\psi$.
    - $\Gamma$ is __consistent__ or __satisfiable__ if there is a model $M$ and an environment $l$ such that $M \vDash_l \phi$ for every $\phi\in\Gamma$.
- __Validity problem__: Given a predicate logic formula $\phi$, check whether $\vDash\phi$ holds or not.
    - The validity problem for propositional logic is _NP-complete_.
    - The validity problem for predicate logic is _undecidable_.
- __Post correspondence problem (PCP)__: Given $C = ((s_1,t_1),(s_2,t_2),...,(s_k,t_k))$ where $s_i,t_i$ are non-empty binary strings for every $1\le i\le k$. Check whether there are $1\le i_1,i_2,...,i_n \le k$ s.t. $s_{i_1}s_{i_2}...s_{i_n} = t_{i_1}t_{i_2}...t_{i_n}$.
- $\vDash\phi$ holds iff $¬\phi$ is not satisfiable.
    - Theorem: The validity problem for predicate logic is _undecidable_.
    - Corollary: The satisfiability problem for predicate logic is _undecidable_.
- __Soundness__ and __completeness__: For any predicate logic sentence $\phi$, $\vdash\phi$ iff $\vDash\phi$.
- Lemma: Let $\Gamma$ be a set of predicate logic formulae. $\Gamma\vDash\phi$ implies $\Gamma\vdash\phi$ is equivalent to $\Gamma\vDash\bot$ implies $\Gamma\vdash\bot$.
- __Compactness theorem__: Let $\Gamma$ be a set of predicate logic sentences. If all finite subset of $\Gamma$ is satisfiable, $\Gamma$ is satisfiable.
- __Lowenhein-Skolem Theorem__: Let $\psi$ be a predicate logic sentence. If $\psi$ has a model with at least $n$ elements for every $n ≥ 1$, $\psi$ has a model with infinitely many elements.
- __Reachability__: Given a directed graph $G$ and nodes $n,n'$ in $G$, the reachability problem for $G$ is to check whether there is a path of transition from $n$ to $n'$.
- Reachability in predicate logic: There is no predicate logic formula $\phi$ with exactly two free variables $u,v$ and exactly one binary predicate $R$ such that $\phi$ holds in directed graphs iff there is a path in the graph from the node associated with $u$ to the node associated with $v$.
