## 2017-10-19

- Sequence alignment problem:
    - Input: two sequences $X=x1x2...xm$ and $Y=y1y2...yn$, and the cost of insertion $C_i$, deletion $C_d$ and substitutions $C_s$.
    - Output: the minimal cost M for aligning two sequences.
    - Recursion: $M_{i,j} = \begin{cases} jC_i \text{ if } i=0 \\ iC_d \text{ if } j=0 \\ \min\{M_{i-1,j-1}+C_s, M_{i-1,j}+C_d, M_{i,j-1}+C_i \} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Time complexity: $T(m,n) = \Theta(mn)$.
    - Space complexity: $S(m,n) = \Theta(mn)$ or $S(m,n) = \Theta(n)$ but the solution cannot be reconstructed.
- Space-efficient algorithm for sequence alignment problem:
    - Divide and conquer + Dynamic programming.
    - Find the min-cost alignment &rarr; Find the shortest path.
    - Solution: $F_{m,n} = \min_{0\le u\le m} F_{u,v}+B_{u,v}$ $\forall v$.
        - $F_{i,j}$: length of the shortest path from $(0,0)$ to $(i,j)$.
        - $B_{i,j}$: length of the shortest path from $(i,j)$ to $(m,n)$.
    - Optimal solution:
        - $v = n/2$
        - $u^* = \arg\min_{0\le u\le m} F_{u,v}+B_{u,v}$
    - Time complexity: $T(m,n) = \begin{cases} O(m) \text{ if } n=1 \\ T(u^*,n/2) + T(m-u^*,n/2) + O(mn) \text{ if } n>1 \end{cases}$ $\implies T(m,n)=O(mn)$.
- Weighted interval scheduling problem:
    - Input: $n$ job requests with start times $s$, finish times $f$.
    - Output: the maximum number of compatible jobs.
    - $p(j)$ = largest index $i < j$ s.t. jobs $i$ and $j$ are compatible.
    - Sort the requests in non-decreasing order.
    - Recursion: $M_i = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } i=0 \\ \max\{ v_i+M_{p(i)}, M_{i-1} \} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Time complexity: $T(n) = \Theta(n)$.
- Knapsack problem:
    - Input: $n$ items where $i$-th item has value $v_i$ and weighs $w_i$ ($v_i$ and $w_i$ are positive integers).
    - Output: the maximum value for the knapsack with capacity of $W$.
    - 0-1: $M_{i,w} = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } i=0 \\ M_{i-1,w} \text{ if } w_i > w \\ \max\{ v_i + M_{i-1,w-w_i}, M_{i-1,w} \} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Unbounded: $M_w = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } w=0 \text{ or } w_i > w \\ \max_{1\le i\le n, w_i\le w} (v_i + M_{w-w_i}) \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Multidimensional: $M_{i,w,d} = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } i=0 \\ M_{i-1,w,d} \text{ if } w_i > w \\ \max\{ v_i + M_{i-1,w-w_i,d-d_i}, M_{i-1,w,d} \} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Multiple-choice: $M_{i,w} = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } i=0 \\ M_{i-1,w} \text{ if } w_{i,j} > w\ \forall j \\ \max_{1\le j\le n_i} \{ v_{i,j} + M_{i-1,w-w_{i,j}}, M_{i-1,w} \} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$
    - Fractional: by greedy algorithm.
