## Homework 2

### Problem 5

1. Let $M_i$ denote the maximum sum of the non-decreasing subsequence up to $S_i$ for $i=1,2,...,|S|$. The recursion formula is written as $$M_i=\begin{cases} S_i \text{ if } i=1 \text{ or } S_j>S_i\  \forall j<i \\ \max\{ M_j + S_i\ |\ j<i \text{ and } S_j≤S_i \} \end{cases}$$First, let's prove the correctness of the recursion formula by induction.
    - __Inductive hypothesis__: $M_n$ is correctly calculated with the formula.
    - __Basis__: when $n=1$, $M_1=S_1$, which is always correct.
    - __Inductive step__: If $S_j>S_{n+1}\  \forall j<n+1$, then $M_{n+1}$ is $S_{n+1}$ itself because it is the start of a non-decreasing subsequence. Otherwise, if $\exists j<n+1 \text{ s.t. } S_j≤S_{n+1}$, then a new non-decreasing subsequence is generated by concatenating $S_{n+1}$ to the end of any non-decreasing subsequences up to $S_j$, of which the maximum sum is $M_j$. Therefore, $M_{n+1}$ is the maximum of $\{ M_j + S_{n+1}\ |\ j<n+1 \text{ and } S_j≤S_{n+1} \}$.
    - __Conclusion__: the recursion formula is correct.
    - __Time complexity__: To calculate each $M_i$ for $i=2,...,|S|$, we have to loop through $j=1,2,...,i-1$ and keep track of the maximum if $S_j≤S_i$. Therefore, the time complexity is $1+\sum_{i=2}^n(i-1)=O(n^2)$.
2.
    a. The $n×m$ grid is filled in column by column from left to right. First, a configuration of a column is defined as a unique way of placing objects in that column. For a column with $n$ rows, there are exactly $2^n$ unique configurations, numbered from $1$ to $2^n$. First, $S$, $M$, and $I$ are defined as follows:
        - $S_j$: the number of valid ways to put objects into an $n×j$ grid.
        - $M_{i,j}$: the number of valid ways to put objects into an $n×j$ grid given the configuration of the j-th column is $i$.
        - $I_{i,j}$: the set of valid configurations of $(j-1)$-th column given the configuration of $j$-th column is $i$.
    With these notations, the subproblem and the transition function can be expressed as follows:<br>__Subproblem__: $S_j=\sum_{i=1}^{2^n}M_{i,j}$<br>__Transition function__: $M_{i,j}=\begin{cases} 0 \text{ if configuration } i \text{ is not valid} \\ 1 \text{ if configuration } i \text{ is valid and } j=1 \\ \sum_{i\in I_{i,j}}M_{i,j-1} \text{ if configuration } i \text{ is valid and } j>1 \end{cases}$
    b. The steps in the analysis of time complexity:
        - Given the configuration of $(j-1)$-th and $j$-th column, it takes $O(n)$ to check if it is valid.
        - To calculate $M_{i,j}$, we have to loop through $2^n$ possible configurations of $(j-1)$-th column. Time complexity: $O(2^n×n)$.
        - To calculate $S_j$, we have  to loop through all $2^n$ configurations of $j$-th column. Time complexity: $O(2^n×2^n×n)$.
        - The solution is $S_m$, namely, there are $m$ $S_j$'s to compute. Therefore, the overall time complexity: $O(2^n×2^n×n×m)=O(4^n×n×m)$.

### Problem 6

1. Three.
2. Define variables as follows: $j$ be the largest index $<i$ s.t. balloon $j$ is not removed from the sequence of balloons, and $x$ be the number of shots. Pseudocode is given as follows:
    1. Sort $n$ balloons by $y^h$ in increasing order. If $y^h$ are the same, then sort by $y^l$ in non-increasing order. &rArr; $O(n\log n)$
    2. $j = 0$ &rArr; $\Theta(1)$
    3. __for__ balloon $i=1,...,n-1$: &rArr; $\Theta(n)$
        1. __if__ $y_i^l ≤ y_j^l$:
            1. Remove balloon $i$ from the sequence
        2. __else__:
            1. $j=i$
    4. $n' =$ the number of balloons left &rArr; $\Theta(1)$
    5. $x = 0$ and $i = 0$ &rArr; $\Theta(1)$
    6. __while__ $i ≠ n'$ (there is any balloon left):
        1. $x = x + 1$ and shoot at $y = y_i^h$
        2. __while__ $y \in [y_i^l,y_i^h]$:
            1. $i = i + 1$
    7. __return__ x
    - __Time complexity__: The while loop in step 6 is entered at most $n$ times since at least one balloon is shot in each loop. Therefore, step 6.1 takes $O(n)$. Likewise, the while loop in step 6.2 is entered exactly $n$ times. Therefore, step 6.2.1 takes $\Theta(n)$. Altogether, the time complexity of the given algorithm is upper bounded by the sorting in Step 1, which is $O(n\log n)$.
3.
    - Step 1 & 2: If balloon $i-1$ is completely contained in balloon $i$, then balloon $i$ can be removed because whenever balloon $i-1$ is shot broken, balloon $i$ is shot broken as well. The resulting sequence of balloons satisfying the following two properties: (1) $y^h$ in increasing order, and (2) $y^l$ in increasing order.
    - __Optimal substructure__: Given a sequence of sorted balloons. Define $M_i$ be the optimal solution for the first $i$ balloons. Define $p(i)$ be the largest index $i'<i$ s.t. balloon $i'$ and balloon $i$ do not overlap. The subproblem is given is follows: $$M_i=\begin{cases} 1 \text{ if } i=0 \text{ or } p(i) \text{ does not exist} \\ 1+M_{p(i)} \text{ otherwise} \end{cases} $$Those overlapping with balloon $i$ can be broken in one shot, and those not overlapping with balloon $i$ are counted in $M_{p(i)}$. If $M_i$ is optimal, then $M_{p(i)}$ has to be optimal; otherwise, $M_i$ can be even smaller.
    - __Greedy choice property__: Given a sequence of $i$ sorted balloons. A greedy algorithm is to shoot at the $y^l$ of the last balloon left in the sequence. Suppose the optimal solution does not include this greedy choice. Then, shooting position of the first shot $y>y_i^l$ will leave $j$ balloons unbroken s.t. $j≥p(i)$. Since $M$ is a non-decreasing sequence, we know $M_j≥M_{p(i)}$. However, this is a contradiction to that the optimal solution does not include this greedy choice because $1+M_{p(i)}≤1+M_j$, i.e. the greedy choice is always at least as small as the optimal solution. __Conclusion__: The optimal solution includes this greedy choice. The algorithm given above chooses to shoot at the $y^h$ from the beginning of the sequence, which is equivalent to shooting at the $y^l$ from the end of the sequence.
