# Do people need mathematics every day?

Mathematics, the basis for natural and social science, is so abstract and elusive that it has invariably perplexed youngsters in their school years however diligent and assiduous they are. Surprisingly, despite its elusion and complexity, people are, in reality, using mathematics in every day and every aspect of their life.

To begin with, commercial activities are dependent on basic arithmetics, which many may not have ever noticed. Everyone, even toddlers, should have never been more familiar with basic arithmetic operations, including addition and subtraction so that they are capable of paying or requesting the right amount of money as a customer or a cashier. Without calculation, the use of currency becomes impossible and our current economic system could collapse as a result. Consequently, it is not inappropriate to say that our economy is based on our innate ability to calculate. The example illustrates that although school mathematics tends to be intimidating, people use it everywhere and every day even without completing elementary education.

Moreover, people are inclined to incorporate fundamental logic in their conversations without noticing it. Logic, a field of mathematics, armors and embellishes our plain language and turned them into logical conversations which comprise clear cause-and-effect constructs. For instance, as we listen carefully to a powerful speech, it is not difficult to realize that persuasive arguments are based on a speaker's capability of organizing sentences with logic meticulously. Conversely, those who merely scramble up words are never able to persuade others with their language regardless of the length of their speech.

Last but not least, drawing requires a rudimentary understanding of geometry, the study of shapes. Although most of us are not artists, from time to time, we have to resort to sketching, like a few lines or geometric shapes, on a piece of paper to demonstrate our viewpoints. This use of geometry is even more common in school and business. For example, science teachers utilized geometric shapes to represent celestial bodies so as to introduce students to the solar system. Likewise, a business concept can be too complicated to clarify with language, yet the concept becomes understandable if some clever colleague is able to present it with shapes and arrows.

In conclusion, while seemingly unbelievable at first look, it is undoubted that people rely on mathematics in their everyday life, including transactions at a store, making a powerful speech, and sketching an abstract concept. As a result, be open to mathematics to enrich our life.
