# Do you prefer reading or listening?

In the era of the information explosion, retrieval of accurate knowledge has become more important than ever. In terms of how one acquires knowledge, some prefer to read alone while some prefer to listen in class, and there is no simple answer to which approach works best. As far as I am concerned, my preferable way of retrieving information is reading alone.

To begin with, reading alone offers more autonomy. Attending a lecture requires a student to follow a teacher's pace whereas reading a textbook alone allows a student to adjust the pace autonomously. Consequently, many students, reportedly, feel more comfortable studying alone because they can have better control over the pace without feeling pressed to catch up. For instance, nowadays, many colleges in my country no longer compel their students to be present in class physically. Instead, the colleges encourage the teachers to record and upload their lectures to a teaching platform for students to watch based on their own pace and schedule. This change not only allows the students to arrange their classes more flexibly but also incredibly enhances their academic performance according to college statistics. The students explain that watching an online course in combination with reading a textbook allows them to spend more time on the difficult part of a lecture at will, which is a strategy helpful in understanding abstract concepts.

Furthermore, a textbook is usually more informative than a lecture. A good textbook is usually full of illustrations and examples that could facilitate a student's learning. In addition, however capable a teacher is of summarizing a textbook and delivering the knowledge, a student is always encouraged or even required to resort to a textbook for a more detailed and comprehensive explanation. Therefore, a textbook is arguably a more efficient option for those who have yet to discover more details or do practice questions although reading alone may require a student to have at least a basic understanding of a topic. Take my own experience as a medical student for example. Medical knowledge encompasses entities from subcellular organelles to systems organs, which even an outstanding teacher can barely explain with great detail as a textbook does. Consequently, reading a textbook is implicitly expected by all teachers and is necessary to prepare for my exams. Medical textbooks are indeed informative and worth studying.

To sum up, I would rather read a textbook alone than listen to a teacher in class because reading alone provides more autonomy and a textbook is usually more informative. Hence, I would suggest students dive into a textbook alone whenever possible, which will substantially boost their academic performance.
