# Do you prefer highways or public transportation?

Transportation is an indispensable human activity that brings people to every corner of the world. In view of the limited budget, governments have never faced a shortage of opposing opinions on the most suitable infrastructure. Based on my own experience living in Taipei for 10 years, I personally prefer public transportation over highways.

To begin with, public transportation could significantly alleviate agonizing traffic jams. From my standpoint, I have to drive from time to time. During rush hours, it used to be common to spend up to 10 minutes waiting at a traffic light. The traffic was especially terrible at the entrance of a highway where cars lined up for miles. Thankfully, the subway system in Taipei is becoming more well-connected, which slowly but steadily changes the ways people commute. Commuting by subway tremendously reduces the number of vehicles on the roads.

Secondly, encouraging the use of public transportation could improve air quality in the city. Vehicles could produce more contamination and toxic chemicals in the environment, some of which have proved detrimental to human health. Take Taipei as an example. The air quality used to be remarkably different between weekdays and weekends. Compared to weekends, the city on weekdays was full of stinky smells and sometimes dizzying. Thanks to the introduction of the extensive subway system, the air quality in Taipei has greatly improved according to government data.

Last but not least, a well-connected bus and subway network is accessible to everyone. In contrast, only people who can afford a car can benefit from an extensive highway network. For example, not everyone living in Taipei can afford to buy a car as well as a parking space. In fact, some Taipei people have never thought of commuting by car considering the exorbitant cost. Instead, they choose to rely on the subway system which is widely accessible and well-maintained. Building more highways would never meet the needs of people without cars.

To sum up, based on my own experience, public transit is much more beneficial than highways. As a result, when designing a habitable city, governments should always consider constructing a convenient public transportation network as opposed to highways. In so doing, all citizens can benefit from reduced traffic jams, improved air quality, and fair accessibility.
