# Do you prefer old friends or new friends?

Friendship is one of the greatest bonds people can ever wish for regardless of their personality. At every stage of our life, we meet with different people in different places and may come across difficulties choosing between making new friends and simply keeping old friends. While everyone has their own opinions and there is no absolute answer, I would rather maintain old friendships than search for new ones.

To begin with, advice from an old friend is often more constructive. An old friend is more cognizant of our personality, habits, advantages, and disadvantages whereas a new friend barely knows anything about us. Consequently, in times of difficulty, an old acquaintance can constructively provide us with advice based on a comprehensive understanding of our situation. Take me for example, in college, despite my diligence and assiduity, I was failing calculus and was clueless about how to reverse the dire situation. Thankfully, after a long night's talk, an intimate high-school friend of mine pointed out that, during the exam, I might have been overly obsessed with addressing difficult questions instead of prioritizing the simple ones because he knew perfectly well that I was the kind of person who was constantly eager to boast of my capability of solving tough questions. My old friend's advice precisely pinpointed the problem that I previously neglected and helped me pass calculus eventually.

Further, old friends tend to be more loyal and reliable. Mutual trust is an invaluable product of long acquaintance and is the basis of loyalty and reliability, which individuals and enterprises particularly cherish. As a result, in the face of a crisis, our long-time partners would be less likely to betray us or ruthlessly leave us alone; instead, they may reliably accompany us and even rescue us as a reciprocal action. For instance, companies with long-term reliable partnerships tend to form a tight union that is powerful and competitive in the market. The union ensures its competitiveness not only by distributing profits and risks to each of its constituents but also by preventing disloyal and unreliable third parties from entering the system to compromise the quality of its products. Thanks to old friendships and partnerships, this industrial strategy contributes to huge corporations and groups that create powerful products and services conducive to technological advances throughout the globe.

To sum up, I prefer to keep old friends as opposed to make new friends not only because of old friends' ability to provide more constructive advice but also because of their loyalty and reliability. Therefore, I suggest everyone keep in touch with their old acquaintances so that both sides will benefit from this ever-lasting friendship.
