# How has technology made life better?

Technology is developed to meet the needs of people in this ever-changing world. Just like many people who have benefited from modern technology, my own life is also greatly influenced by technology in a positive way.

First, the advancement in civil engineering provides a safer place to live. I was born and raised in a rural area of Taiwan. I used to live in an old house which was built with a traditional technique. In 1999,  a major earthquake hit my country and killed thousands of people. The old house my family and I had lived in for almost ten years also sustained damage from the earthquake. Thanks to the development of durable building materials, construction contractors started to build new residential complexes that passed safety requirements. My family decided to move to one of the new apartments that were able to resist shakes and fires in the face of earthquakes and fire accidents. Thereafter, no more earthquakes have been able to damage houses built after 1999. My family and other people's lives are indeed protected by new technology.

Furthermore, technology delivers better health care to sick people. I have also experienced how healthcare evolves in Taiwan. When I was little, I was hospitalized once in a local hospital. While the healthcare professionals and the staff were nice, the facilities and equipment were shabby, and sometimes even broken. I also remember that doctors wrote down prescriptions on paper. Nowadays, I observe that electronic systems are more widely adopted across the country. Also, hospitals introduce smart devices to monitor patients more accurately and efficiently. Pharmaceutical companies have also developed and produced newer medications. All of the changes not only improve my experience when visiting a doctor but also benefits patients who require advanced diagnostics and treatment.

Last but not least, telecommunication eliminates the need for traveling during the pandemic. In the past, I had to travel abroad to join an international conference to present my research. While traveling was immensely fun, it also requires effort to plan the trip and overcome jet lag, which I found tiresome and time-consuming. Thankfully, tech companies, like Google and Zoom, have developed convenient and powerful telecom apps which enable high-quality real-time image and sound transmission acc]ross the world. Physical presence at a conference is no longer necessitated for a vivid presentation. Especially during the pandemic, the conferences I used to join all become virtual, which saves me and other presenters a significant amount of time to travel. We can now comfortably sit at home giving a keynote presentation with the help of new technology.

Because of the aforementioned reasons and my own experiences, I endorse that technology improves our quality of life tremendously. In addition, its influence on my life is comprehensive, from housing quality and healthcare to communication. 
