# Is it beneficial to live in a foreign country?

Globalization as well as global traveling have been made possible through advances in technology in the past centuries. Living in a foreign country poses lots of challenges to immigrants and travelers, yet many still yearn for an opportunity to have such an experience. Although the pros and cons of living abroad depend on individuals' subjective perspectives, I argue that it is absolutely beneficial to our lives in many ways.

To begin with, the experience of living abroad advances our proficiency in foreign language speaking, which further enriches our knowledge. By exposing ourselves to a foreign country, we are compelled to communicate with local residents and pick up a foreign language more rapidly as a result. Moreover, savviness in a foreign language is frequently required in college education for a more comprehensive understanding of an area of study. What is more, through living abroad, we also get to verify the authenticity of the knowledge taught in school. Take me for example. I, as a doctor, was lucky enough to attend medical school in the US temporarily as a visiting student in college. The experience significantly improved my grasp of English and allowed me to comprehend English medical textbooks more readily.

Furthermore, living abroad raises our cultural awareness which benefits our careers. Only through in-depth interaction with local residents in a foreign country can we become aware of the subtle cultural difference between ethnicities. Moreover, the understanding of foreign cultures is what many international enterprises appreciate because such a skill not only allows more natural communications but also obviates the possibility of misunderstanding with a foreign coworker or customer. This situation is exemplified by tech giants such as Google and Apple, which requires a manager post applicant to have a diverse cultural background and knowledge. An applicant who has ever been educated abroad has an edge over those who have not and is supposedly more likely to land on the post.

To sum up, living abroad even just temporarily is beneficial because the experience not only sharpens our proficiency in a foreign but also makes us aware of foreign culture, which brings about broader knowledge and better career prospects. Therefore, I suggest everyone grasp any opportunity to stay abroad as a student or a temporary worker.
