# Is knowledge or relatability more important?

A teacher is a role model for students and should possess numerous praiseworthy qualities to undertake such a role. Both knowledge and the ability to relate with students are considered imperative but which one has more importance remains debatable. Nevertheless, I argue that the capability of relating should be valued more.

To begin with, relating with students can help shape their personalities. In school years, one acquires a sense of identity and develops their own personality, and a teacher is a role model whom students can trust and learn from. During frequent and friendly interactions with the students, mutual trust is established and a teacher can subconsciously influence their behavior by instilling correct values. Conversely, if always remaining distant and authoritative toward the students, a teacher loses the opportunity to guide the students into better persons. And decent qualities and personalities are not something that students can learn from textbooks. For example, a high-school teacher of mine was always willing to share his personal experience relatable to me after class. My trust in him tempted me to take his advice and moral lessons more compliantly. His willingness to relate with me definitely shaped my personality and value system.

In addition, an intimate teacher-student relationship serves as an emotional anchor for students. Everyone must have an important other as an emotional outlet during their difficult times. For students losing family and without friends, a teacher might undertake such a role as a result. When students encounter difficult times or feel helpless, a teacher can intervene and give the students a hand. For instance, local news recently disclosed that a teacher's intelligence saved a student's life. According to the news, the teacher was close to all his students and was sensitive enough to notice one student's change in behavior in school. After further questioning, out of trust, the student alluded to being sexually abused by a neighbor, which was then reported to the authority concerned by the teacher. The example shows how an intimate teacher-student relationship rescues a student.

All in all, the ability to relate well with students should be considered to be more important because such ability shapes the students' personalities and allows for an emotional anchor. I suggest teachers spend more time relating with students for a sound teacher-student relationship.
