# Is making mistakes so horrible?

Some people are so afraid of making mistakes that they even refuse to take steps. Indeed, mistakes can be horrible because we might be beaten down. However, I hold a different opinion on mistakes. I believe that we should feel grateful for the mistakes and failures befalling us. I have two reasons for my opinion.

First of all, mistakes are the best teacher we can ever imagine. After making mistakes, we get an opportunity to reevaluate the situation and rethink the actions we could have taken to avoid such mistakes. Mistakes urge us to grow and learn to prevent the same mistakes from occurring. We can never know our shortcomings and where to improve ourselves without mistakes. For example, when I was a child, I was once hit by a car while I was riding a bicycle. After the accident, I always remind myself to pay more attention to the road situation. Without that experience, I might run into more serious accidents while driving a car.

Secondly, by making mistakes, we become more mentally mature. Mistakes teach us to persevere for greater achievement. We also learn to cope with the disappointment that comes along with failures and move forward. In addition, mistakes educate us on how to stay humble and prevent us from falling into complacency, which is the most significant enemy in our way to a successful career. Take me for example, when I was in the first year of high school, I was usually ranked one or two in my class. Gradually, I got complacent about my academic performance and started to drop out in seventh grade. Because of overconfidence, I wasn't serious about my failing grades until I failed one of the subjects. That struck me for a long period since I had never expected a failing score. Since then, I studied harder than ever and got admission to medical school.

To sum up, making mistakes is a blessing in life, and we should be afraid of our adversaries that survive innumerable failures. Mistakes sharpen our swords of knowledge to avoid similar ones. Moreover, we become more mature and tenacious. As a result, I staunchly believe that we all should be obliged to mistakes and failures.
