# Should advertising aimed at kids be allowed?

Advertising campaigns are widely believed by merchants to boost their revenue. As a result, those campaigns are ubiquitous as we can see on television and on the streets. While most are directed toward grown-ups, some directed toward kids frequently spark opposing opinions from the public. Personally speaking, I argue that advertising to kids should be allowed.

To begin with, children should have the same right to be well-informed, including advertisements. A business might develop products conducive to children, and advertising campaigns are the medium for kids to be aware of such products. Additionally, parents have the responsibility to discuss with their children on the pros and cons of the products. Most important of all, it is up to the parents whether to purchase it or not. No reason should deprive the kids of the right to access information. For instance, it is completely acceptable to advertise a scientific calculator to a kid. Without advertisement, it could be difficult for some living in remote areas or with limited internet access to know about such a product.

In addition, educational commercials might induce kids to cultivate good habits. While some may argue that children's behavior is more subject to advertisements containing violence or aggressive thoughts, the responsibility falls on the parents to guide their kids on the judgment of the advertisement content. For instance, a toothpaste TV commercial may help promote dental hygiene habits. Even a good tobacco advertisement can raise kids' awareness about the harmful ingredients in cigarettes. Again, the advertisements should not be blamed for childhood delinquency and it is the parents and the teachers who play a crucial role in inducing their kids' behavior.

In conclusion, I firmly believe that advertising aimed at kids should not be forbidden. Instead, we should raise the parents' awareness of their responsibility for disciplining their kids. Advertisements should be regarded as a medium for information and precious learning material.
