# Should parents give pocket money?

I wasn't receiving any pocket money from my parents until I started studying at college. As a result, I have experience with both scenarios. I completely relied on my parents for daily necessities before college and only started receiving pocket money during my college years. However, as far as I'm concerned, I object to the idea that parents should give pocket money to their children for a few reasons.

Firstly, children living without pocket money treasure what they have already possessed because the loss of personal belongings cannot be replaced readily. Taking good care of personal belongings is also a display of responsibility. Children also develop the virtue of thrift and learned not to squander money recklessly. As far as I can remember, my parents always reminded me of the virtue of thrift when I was young. Therefore, I have made it a habit to memorize where I left my stuff since my childhood, and I seldom missed things.

Moreover, children living in an environment with limited resources tend not to take fortune and success for granted. In addition, they will realize that the only way to make a living is by contributing to society with their knowledge. Such belief urges children to excel at schoolwork. When I was little, I realized that academic excellence was one of the ways that could lead me to success and financial independence. With that belief, I was more diligent in schoolwork than anyone else, which was indeed reflected in my academic performance.

Last but not least, I argue that giving pocket money is not a display of parents' love and care. On the contrary, such behavior spoils their children and is a display of disregard. Parents are more inclined to use pocket money as an excuse for not spending time with their children. We have seen enough news on television reporting that some criminals are children of wealthy parents because of the lack of parental love.

To sum up, I consider that giving pocket money to children is a bad habit that should be avoided by parents. Without pocket money, children not only learn the virtue of thrift but also realize that they are solely responsible for themselves to be financially independent. Furthermore, pocket money can be, in some cases, detrimental to the relationship between parents and children.
