# Should people attend college or university?

College or university is supposed to have its unique attraction so that tons and tons of students graduating from high schools manage to get enrolled. While some people attend college without thinking, some think over the meaning of it, and ask themselves, is it worth spending extra years in school? That's also the question I had for myself before going into college. And, I am lucky enough to be a college graduate now. I would like to share my reasons for attending college.

College graduates tend to have better career prospects. It is believed that a college or university provides organized knowledge and skills that are essential for business and our society. College students can specialize in all sorts of specialties, including accounting, computer programming, laboratory techniques, and so on. After fulfilling all the graduation requirements, students are granted a graduate diploma, which is proof of their academic achievement acknowledged by a college. Therefore, an interviewer with a college diploma is more likely to capture the attention of a hiring company and get hired in the end. From my viewpoint, a college diploma can be equivalent to a more successful career.

A college is also a place where people can explore their values and what they truly love. College or university can offer a variety of experiences beyond academic lectures. Students get the chance to expose themselves in student clubs, volunteer, and even have serious relationships with intimate ones. Among all the possibilities, college students envision the lives they aspire to and create a path toward their future. College or university is essentially a miniature of the whole society, within which students explore and experiment fearlessly to find their true identities. That is also the case for me. My college life definitely has had a profound influence on who I am today.

Overall, I think college broadens our horizons with professional knowledge and enables us to conduct critical thinking. Also, we can enrich our experiences through interaction with other fellow students and by participating in school activities. Together, these benefits prepare us for better careers and allow us to realize our true selves. I truly appreciate the precious experiences provided by my college. 
