# Should history courses be required?

History is the study of change over time, and it covers all aspects of human society. The dispute over whether to keep history as a required course in college remains unsolved and is definitely worth more in-depth discussion between educators and students. While many college students oppose taking history courses, I hold the opinion that history courses should remain and become required in college.

First, history gives us the tools to analyze and explain problems in the past, it positions us to see patterns that might otherwise be invisible in the present and, thus, provides a crucial perspective for understanding and even solving current and future problems. For example, a course on the history of public health might emphasize how environmental pollution disproportionately affects less affluent communities, such as the Flint water crisis. Additionally, understanding immigration patterns may provide crucial background for addressing ongoing racial or cultural tensions. In many ways, history interprets the events and causes that contributed to our current world.

Second, studying the diversity of human experience helps us appreciate cultures, ideas, and traditions that are not our own and teaches us to recognize them as meaningful products of specific times and places. Moreover, history helps us realize how different our lived experience is from that of our ancestors, yet how similar we are in our goals and values. For instance, Taiwan is an immigration society with ancestors immigrating primarily from mainland China. Although speaking different dialects initially, throughout a century, people on the island gradually develop a sense of identity and independence, which makes us willing to collaboratively protect our common values and strive for a more prosperous future.

To sum up, I take a firm stand that students should be required to take history courses in college because history and the past teach us about the present and build empathy for the lives and struggles of others. Hence, I encourage college students to embrace the beauty of history so that they will grow sophisticated and compassionate.
