# Should public service be compulsory?

Military service and social work are altruistic behaviors, but, unfortunately, not many people choose to devote themselves to such works partly because they are often underpaid compared to the risk and workload. However, both services are so essential for the nation to survive and the society to prosper that some countries have no choice but to conscript their nationals. However, I object that these works should be compulsory, for which I have three reasons.

First, I object to the statement that some services are so essential to society that they should be compulsory. To be honest, every job is crucial for the prosperity of our community, from road cleaning and dishwashing to cutting-edge scientific research. We all take a role in society and enjoy the service of others while contributing our own. No job should be deemed more imperative or critical than another, and the value of a job should depend only on individuals instead of the whole society. I also would like to contribute myself to the military service when one day I find myself in a situation where the safety of my country is endangered and such contribution outweighs my current achievement in my job.

Second, everyone should be free to choose their career without being forced to commit themselves to social work and military service. Only when people are interested in these works can they better truly embrace the values within. Coercion, in fact, only achieves the opposite and never motivates people to excel in the skills required for these jobs, which is, in turn, detrimental to the overall quality of military service and social work. I am no exception to such a rule. I am always diligent in the works I love from deep in my heart but insouciant to tasks I am forced to complete.

Last, some would say compulsory military service and social work help to meet the manpower needs; otherwise, the society and even the nation would collapse. However, I believe there is a better and also intuitive solution to such difficulties, which is an increase in financial compensation. Weirdly, taxpayers are unwilling to better compensate for such altruistic service while wishing others to take part in such service. As long as financial compensation is high enough to attract willing nationals, the problem of the shortage of manpower is solved naturally.

To sum up, enforcing compulsory military service or social work seems inappropriate and unnecessary to me. For one thing, no job should be regarded as more crucial so that everyone should participate. Moreover, I believe everyone has the freedom to choose their career without being coerced, which is actually beneficial to society. Finally, to solve the lack of manpower, financial compensation works better than conscription. 
