# Should we spend more in arts or in sports?

Because considered less essential in many countries, arts and sports have constantly been competing with each other for limited resources from the governments in an attempt to yield more revenue. Despite no absolute solution to the constant financial conflicts between the two sides, I preferentially expect the governments to invest more budget in sports.

To begin with, successful investment in sports is expected to be more profitable. A sports match often takes place in a stadium that can accommodate a vast number of audiences whereas an art exhibition tends to only draw the attention of the upper class of society. Hence, it goes without saying sports have a much greater potential to bring in considerable revenue and taxes. For example, each World Cup match is able to attract tens of thousands of fans from all over the world and even the cheapest fare costs 300 US dollars. The tremendous profit is not only why so many countries strive for the opportunity to hold the World Cup but also why even the poorest countries invest considerable budgets in developing their football industry.

Moreover, a sports match creates numerous jobs and improves the local economy as a result. In order to attract a huge audience, a government has to not only recruit and mobilize local workers to construct a new stadium but also renovate the entire neighborhood. On the contrary, although an art exhibition hall costs much less, it requires at most tens of people and has a negligible economic effect on the local neighborhood compared to a sports stadium. For instance, NBA stadiums are inclined to vitalize the entire community and have been shown to be an effective strategy to combat local poverty and crime. No wonder every local government always tries its hardest to attract a basketball team that is willing to relocate to a new city.

To sum up, I would take a firm stand for sponsoring sports more than arts because of the profitability and the vitality that sports can bring to a community and a country. My suggestion should definitely be taken seriously by governments for the best of their nationals.
