# What is the most important aspect of a movie?

A movie, as a form of art, is produced to convey a concept and has thrived in the past decades with the advance of technology. Many factors are involved in the production of a movie, including the plot, the cast, the theme, the dialogue, and so on. In my viewpoint, a movie with a well-developed plot can most likely appeal to me, such as the movie "The Wolf of Wall Street".

To begin with, a well-told story inspires the audience to think. The purpose of a movie, just like a well-written article, is meant to spark the audience's interest in a specific concept, for instance, environmental problems, economic chaos, and climate change. After the movie ends, the audience gets to reflect on themselves and contemplate on the similarity and the discrepancy between the real world and the movie. Furthermore, only through reflection can humans make improvements and progress, which is what a good movie can accomplish through its plot. Take "The Wolf of Wall Street" for example.  The movie illustrates the greedy aspect of mankind and obviously exaggerates what actually happens on Wall Street; however, it encourages the audience, including me, to reflect on ourselves if our greed has taken control of and diminished our humanity.

Moreover, a fascinating plot is more memorable than anything else. People have always been better at remembering something if there is a lively story and moral lesson attached to it. As a result, a good plot is like a glue that sticks the movie to peoples' minds. On the contrary, the special effects and the cast is what the audience is inclined to forget as soon as they step out of the theater. The Wolf of Wall Street, which hardly uses any special effects, focuses on building a cohesive plot in an attempt to allow the audience to follow the storyline of how a group of rapacious stockbrokers becomes rich through illegal manners. The plot is so catchy and colorful that it has won the movie multiple awards.

To sum up, the ultimate purpose of a movie should be to tell a spellbinding story so that the audience can reflect and remember. The cast and other aspects of a movie should all be secondary because the story lives on while all the other things would fade away.
