# What is linkage analysis?

Linkage analysis bases its theory on several well-known laws developed by geneticists, of which the earliest and the most reputed one is Mendel (1822~1884). Although modern techniques boast of complexity and accuracy, linkage analysis is arguably the most cost-effective tool for the detection of culprit genes responsible for certain genetic diseases.

The Principle of Independent Assortment, proposed by Mendel in 1865, describes how different genes independently separate from one another. Independent assortment of genes only applies under the assumption that genes of interest are located on different chromosomes and no translocation of a gene from one chromosome to another occurs during meiosis. Most of the time, the behaviors and interactions between chromosomes are far more complex than those described by the Principle of Independent Assortment. And it is the intricacy of their interaction that contributes to the diversity of life on the earth.

Recombination frequency (RF), denoted by θ, is the frequency with which a single chromosomal crossover will take place between two genes during meiosis. A centimorgan (cM) is a unit that describes a recombination frequency of 1%. Genes located on different chromosomes assort independently and have a recombination frequency of 50%, while linked genes have a recombination frequency that is less than 50%. Since this measurement ignores double crossover, RF tends to underestimate the distance between two linked genes.

Linkage analysis borrows the concept of genetic linkage and extends its application to the exploration of unknown genetic diseases. It aims to correlate specific gene(s) with a well-described phenotype that can be reasonably suspected to be of genetic etiology. Linkage analysis is especially advantageous over other modalities when a significant number of members within a family are involved. In such a case, a pedigree can be depicted in great detail, which is the cornerstone of linkage analysis.

From a pedigree, the geneticist designs genetic markers whose loci are clearly described. In an ideal circumstance, genetic markers are supposed to be dispersed in the vicinity of the suspected gene, or at least on the same chromosome. Furthermore, a genetic marker should comprise known alleles with a non-negligible percentage in the population so that the variation of the same loci within a family can be matched. The design of genetic markers requires tremendous effort and expertise without a doubt. When a high proportion of affected members in the pedigree possess the same allele of one genetic marker, it is reasonable to suspect the culprit gene lies in the vicinity of that genetic marker.

The logarithm of odds (LOD) is a measurement that geneticists use to compare the likelihood that the two loci are indeed linked, to the likelihood purely by chance. The null hypothesis is that the disease and marker loci are unlinked, i.e., there will be an approximately equal number of recombinant and non-recombinant gametes among the offspring The alternate hypothesis is that the disease and marker loci are linked, i.e., there will be more non-recombinants than recombinants among the offspring. Suppose θ is the observed RF concerning one certain genetic marker, the formula of LOD is given below. A LOD greater than 2 is considered evidence for linkage, while a LOD less than -2 is considered evidence to exclude linkage.

Although linkage analysis takes crossover into account and exploits this phenomenon to study unknown genetic culprits, there are shortcomings of this method, meaning that there are certain conditions that RF cannot be estimated accurately and therefore the reliability of linkage analysis is tarnished. Some of these conditions include double crossover and incomplete penetration. In addition, another social situation that makes linkage analysis more difficult than before is the low reproduction rate. Inadequate offspring within a pedigree diminishes the power to reject the null hypothesis that the disease and marker loci are unlinked. Despite these limitations, linkage analysis provides a cost-effective alternative to detect de-novo mutation which is unknown to a genetic disease.
