# What qualities make people successful?

Everyone dreams of a successful life and strives to achieve something magnificent in their career. However, there is no single formula that amounts to success, which is in fact a combination of personal characteristics and extrinsic environments. Based on my observation, I would like to name the three most indispensable qualities that create success.

To begin with, willingness to take risks means a greater chance of triumph. While one may suffer or even fail during an adventure, a risky move can offer more lessons that are conducive to further attempts in the future. Look at the big tech companies around the world. The successful stories of their founders all come down to one single audacious trial that no one in the past has dared to imagine. For example, Steve Jobs never graduated from college. Instead, he risked his early twenties to work on the prototype of the now-popular MacBook. Entrepreneurship is the exact spirit that advances human technology and knowledge.

Furthermore, persistence culminates in victory. There are a number of obstacles along the way to victory, which require months if not years of incessant effort to overcome. During this marathon, losers get tired and give up after the first few steps, while winners stay focused and persist in one direction until the end. Every great athlete knows such morals. For instance, C. Ronaldo, one of the most talented soccer players in the world, once alluded to his fans that he had complied with a rigorous training schedule and diet his whole life, irrespective of his current accomplishment. Again, there is no shortcut to glory other than persistence.

Last but not least, and potentially to many's surprises, being benevolent and philanthropic is key to triumph. Why would giving have anything to do with success? In fact, the ability to contribute to society is a display of personal achievement. As a result, successful people never scrimp on their generosity. Moreover, such benevolence can usually pay off and be reciprocated by society with praise and fame. Take Bill Gates, one such paragon, for example. He has funded poor students from certain African areas to continue their education. In so doing, he has also earned worldwide recognition for his contribution to world peace. Philanthropy is an exclusive symbol of personal accomplishment, regardless of fortune or power.

To sum up, while the definition of success varies for everyone, I hold the belief that being adventurous, persistent, and benevolent are the three single most crucial qualities that make someone stand out. I suggest those who dream big always keep these qualities until their dreams come true.
