# What is your medical research experience?

Throughout my college years, I have conducted several studies to explore my interest and ability. Three representative experiences are summarized in the following paragraphs. In a word, I significantly enhanced my research ability and learned how to appreciate medical literature.

**Highlight** (2014/07-2015/02): As a research intern, I was responsible for all aspects of the project. I hypothesized that SerpinB2-induced SASPs affected lung cancer cells' response to chemotherapy. Over the course of six months, I followed the senior graduates to learn laboratory techniques and did extensive literature reviews to understand SASPs’ effects on lung cancer cells. I cultured SerpinB2-overexpressed IMR90 lung fibroblasts that secreted SASPs into the medium. I treated A549 lung adenocarcinoma cells with the SASP-enriched medium and observed the cancer cells’ response to Cisplatin. I found that SASP-treated cancer cells better survived Cisplatin and had higher expression of BCL2 and ERCC1. I was able to summarize the results in a short essay as my MD thesis. This research experience significantly enhanced my laboratory skill. I learned to culture cells, extract RNA, and run a quantitative PCR. Moreover, I learned to appreciate complex experimental designs and interpret the results in biochemistry research.

**Highlight** (2015/07-2015/08): As a research intern, I was responsible for all aspects of the project. I hypothesized that the duration of IKK and ERK activity following BCR or CD40 stimulation was regulated by transcriptional feedback loops. Over the course of two months, I did extensive literature reviews to understand BCR and CD40 signaling pathways. I collected microarray data (38535 probes in each of 108 arrays) from NCBI. I applied a multiplicative decomposition model (MDM) to identify probes that were differentially expressed in B cells upon BCR or CD40 stimulation. I identified four candidate genes as feedback regulators for IKK and ERK. I was able to summarize my research methods in a short essay. This research experience significantly enhanced my programming skill to manipulate large datasets and implement mathematical models. Moreover, I learned to appreciate complex experimental designs and interpret the results in computational biology research.

**Highlight** (2016/07-2019/06): As a research intern, I was responsible for all aspects of the project. I hypothesized that white matter tract integrity could explain a series of phenotypes, including treatment outcomes of schizophrenia. Over the course of two years, I recruited subjects and cooperated with MRI technicians to acquire MRI scans. I applied logistic regression and found that association fibers and commissural fibers were correlated with response to antipsychotics. I also built a model that predicted the prognosis of schizophrenia. I was able to summarize my findings in a keynote and present it at an international conference. This research experience marks the first time I spent years of effort on a research topic. I learned to develop study hypotheses and design mathematical models to answer research questions. In addition, from extensive literature reviews, I learned to systematically criticize an article. It also strengthened my clinical knowledge which enabled me to conduct evidence-based practice.
