# What is your volunteer experience?

In college, I actively participated in student clubs and volunteered to contribute. Three representative experiences are summarized in the following paragraphs. In a word, I grew to appreciate the resource I have so that I was able to give and contribute.

**Highlight** (2012/09-2013/08): As the head of the Department of Human Rights and Peace, my responsibilities included promoting medical students' understanding of the right to health care and bringing theory into action that helped people living in underserved areas. I held workshops for medical students to brainstorm on different topics in health inequity, including the barriers to accessing medical care, the consequences of such barriers, and potential solutions to more accessible medical care. I also invited doctors who worked in rural areas to share their work experiences, especially the challenge they encountered during their practice. In addition, on World Diabetes Day, I organized a free clinic in the countryside to counsel local residents on the early signs of diabetes and when to seek medical care. The experience taught me different perspectives on health inequity and the challenge to organize healthcare resources in rural areas. Moreover, I learned to plan and organize all aspects of an event on a limited budget.

**Highlight** (2012/09-2013/08): As a club president of an orchestra, my responsibilities included holding concerts and creating a welcoming atmosphere for all orchestra members. The orchestra consisted of around 50 players. At the beginning of the semester, I wrote a manual to get each orchestra officer situated and familiarized with their duties. As my workload increased, I delegated tasks to the most appropriate officer and coordinated different views among members. I planned four concerts during my one-year term. Before each concert, I looked for performance space, prepared the agenda, reviewed the contents in the concert brochures, promoted the concert through posters and social media, etc. I also served as a communication liaison between the college and the orchestra students. While the job as the club president was demanding, it was also rewarding because it taught me how to assume a leadership role within a group. In the face of a complicated task, I learned to break it down and coordinate team members to accomplish the task.

**Highlight** (2015/09-2016/08): As the head of the Department of Information Technology, my responsibilities included maintaining the NTU medical students’ official website and providing technical support on various occasions. During my one-year term, I became acquainted with phpMyAdmin, computer software that helped me manage thousands of medical students’ accounts. In addition, whenever there was a virtual conference, I set up a conference call and developed a protocol to troubleshoot network and hardware issues. I instructed the speakers on how to enter the call and assured everyone that I was prepared to handle any glitches. the presenters Moreover, the medical students' association relied on me to program a lottery system that assigned medical students to each rotation during their internship year. Overall, the one-year experience significantly enhanced my programming skill. More importantly, I developed the ability to take a multidisciplinary approach to real-life problems.
