# What is the pathway to become a doctor?

Qualified doctors have to go through several challenges in their careers, including countless exams and interviews. In view of the lack of a general picture of becoming a doctor in developed countries, a concise compilation of information from various internet sources is worth the effort and can benefit those who wish to pursue this profession.

First of all, enrollment into a medical school is required. There are several ways to enter a medical school depending on the country. In Taiwan, students go straight into medical school from high school after taking college admission tests and interviews. In the US, medical school is part of graduate education, which implies that students have to earn an undergraduate degree before entering medical school. Upon completing the required courses, a medical school would grant an educational qualification to indicate that a graduate has possessed the knowledge to be a doctor. Some of the educational qualifications that are recognized worldwide include MD in Taiwan and the US and MBBS in the UK system.

In many countries, passing a national licensure exam is mandatory before starting to practice medicine with full responsibility. In Taiwan, a licensure exam consists of two MCQ exams and one OSCE. In the US, the equivalent is the well-known USMLE, which comprises three steps. In the UK, there is PLAB before full registration. Interestingly, in Singapore, no national licensure exam is implemented for medical graduates. Anyway, upon getting a passing score, medical graduates are issued a certificate, for example, a physician certificate in Taiwan or ECFMG certificate in the US. Up to this point, a graduate can practice medicine as a general practitioner without further training.

Some doctors may wish to practice as a specialist one day in their career and, therefore, have to enroll in specialty training programs. Doctors entering these programs are also known as resident physicians. Two of the largest programs across the world are (internal) medicine and surgery, both of which comprises many more subspecialties. By completing the postgraduate specialty training and sitting for board exams, doctors can earn specialty certificates or honors from medical boards. Some of the examples are MRCP and MRCS issued by the UK medical boards and certificates issued by the US equivalents, like ABIM and ABS.

To be a doctor on average takes up to 10 years after graduating from high school, not to mention the exorbitant tuition for medical school and exam fees. Think twice and be prepared for all the challenges. This is my recommendation for all the doctors-to-be.
