# What is your favorite board game?

Board games have a history of thousands of years and are an integral part of our daily life across generations. Because every board game necessitates a unique thinking strategy, different games appeal to different audiences and no one is capable of master in all of them. As far as I am concerned, Othello is my favorite board game for two reasons.

To begin with, Othello has simple rules yet a complex playing strategy. It is said that Othello is a minute to learn yet a lifetime to master. In fact, Othello has only one meaningful rule, which says that all discs outflanked in any one move must be flipped. Nevertheless, the strategy required to master this game is worth a textbook. Moreover, analysts have estimated the number of legal positions in Othello is at most $10^28$, and it has a game-tree complexity of approximately $10^58$. Mathematically, Othello still remains unsolved, and experts have not absolutely resolved what the outcome of a game will be where both sides use perfect play. Othello's fascinating combination of simplicity and complexity absolutely sparks many' interest and leads some to a professional career. Simply put, what intrigues me the most when I am playing Othello is the variety of tactics to employ after I analyze the moves played by my opponents.

Secondly, Othello is popular worldwide. It is estimated that over 40 million sets of Othello have been sold worldwide according to the game's International Licensor. Thanks to its tremendous number of active players, it is definitely not difficult to find someone around who happens to enjoy playing Othello as well. As a result, one is arguably allowed to play Othello whenever and wherever they like and even makes some friends during matches. Furthermore, because of its popularity, an organized club, called World Othello Federation, was established by professional players and holds worldwide competitions annually, which further draws people's attention to this board game. Conversely, games that have less popularity induce a transparent barrier for their players to find a match, which prevents an organized club to form. In short, Othello's wide audience allows me to enjoy it anytime and anywhere and meet some of the best players in clubs.

To sum up, Othello is the very board game that can spark my interest and draw my attention because of its simple rules yet complex playing strategy and its popularity. Hence, I encourage everyone to spend their spare time diving into this fascinating board game to either keep mentally sharp or make friends.
