# What is the purpose of a monarch?

A monarch is the head of a state which enforces monarchy. A monarch may or may not practically lead the government depending on the systems. In the absolute monarchy, the governing power falls to the monarch. However, in the constitutional monarchy, the monarch is usually not the person who makes the decisions. Instead, it is more of a symbol of a nation. Then, what is the purpose of such sacred existence? Well, I was born in a country that does not enforce monarchy. I may not be qualified to give comment on the monarchy's legitimacy. However, I would like to conjecture some likely benefits of having a constitutional monarch within a nation.

Firstly, a monarch represents the entire nation, unlike a president or prime minister who represents only a fraction of voters in the election. People are usually opposed to being represented by the one they vote against. And the elected also tend to formulate policies in preference to a few interest groups. Only the monarch, who is not determined by the election, has the moral high ground to represent the entire nation. As a result, a monarch with great integrity earns respect from everyone regardless of political stance.

Secondly, only from the height of a monarch can dispute between the executive and legislative be resolved. While not having the authority to determine policies by executive orders or legislation, the monarch has the sacred power to direct where the country should go when conflicts between political parties arise. His or her words can be decisive and serve as guidance to important political decisions. This sacred power is crucial in that it prevents political conflicts from escalating into military confrontation.

Lastly, a monarch could be the emotional support of the people in the face of a national crisis. The monarch is usually a long-lasting presence within a country regardless of elections. People believe that great wisdom comes with the sacred power and dignity of the monarch. In the face of a national crisis, the words of the monarch can be comforting to the entire nation. To a certain degree, the monarch can be regarded as the symbolic figure of a nation.

To sum up, a monarch's scared power could be of great benefit to the nation. For one thing, the monarch represents the entirety of the people. In addition, the monarch can arbitrate over what appears to be unresolvable conflicts in the nation. Finally, the supreme dignity of the monarch supports all the people emotionally during vulnerable times. As a result, the monarch's scared power is by no means superficial or unrealistic.
