# What are the benefits of exercise?

Exercise is an innate ability of human beings as well as other animals. Throughout the history of evolution, lives have developed delicate muscle systems to execute more and more complex movements. Animals exercise to capture their prey or escape from their predators. Nonetheless, human beings can spare time to do exercise for various reasons other than for a living. Personally speaking, I go jogging and cycling every morning as a habit and use my leisure time to work out in the gym. I would like to share my personal perspective on the benefits of exercise.

First of all, exercise allows us to live longer and healthier. Regular physical activity has been shown to have a positive influence on cardiopulmonary function, and deter cardiovascular diseases. During exercise, the levels of HDL (the good cholesterol) are increased, preventing LDL (the bad cholesterol) from adhering to the blood vessels. In addition, aerobic exercise burns extraneous fats on the body and maintains the body in good shape. In short, exercise prepares us in case of unexpected diseases.

Secondly, mental health comes along with exercise. We can recall how desperate we are to go for a run in face of heartbreaking things in life. Surprisingly, a few miles of running seems to stabilize our moods and deter negative thoughts. This phenomenon is in fact scientifically validated. Physical activity stimulates our brains to release a hormone called endorphin, which is responsible for relieving our stress and producing a feeling of euphoria. Therefore, we can say that exercise helps us adjust to significant stress in life, and prevents us from feeling depressed.

Overall speaking, exercise is essential for both physical and mental health. As human beings, we ambulate not just for seeking food. Instead, we strengthen our bodies to live happier and healthier. I would recommend everyone make exercise a habit. The benefits that physical activity brings to our bodies take time to accumulate and become noticeable. Immense happiness and health are guaranteed.
