# What are the qualities of a good neighbor?

Humans, as a social species, tend to gather and socialize together, and neighbors become inevitable as a result. Due to the proximity of living space, the qualities of our neighbors definitely influence our daily life. In my point of view, a good neighbor encompasses two characteristics.

To begin with, a neighbor being amiable is the first priority. It is not uncommon for residents of a neighborhood to hang out on weekends. Getting along with neighbors can relax our workday stress and refresh our minds. On the contrary, just one picky and annoying neighbor is enough to add to our anxiety and ruin the weekends. Raised in a friendly neighborhood myself, I remembered my neighbors always greeting each other in the morning. My mother also became intimate friends with our next-door neighbor who was easygoing and friendly. They got along and sometimes brought me along to go shopping with them. My amiable neighbor definitely made my weekends.

Last but not least, courage should be acclaimed and valued. Every day, hazards are lurking in our life and society, for instance, unexpected fires and villains causing danger to our neighborhoods. A courageous action from a neighbor can notice lurking hazards and call for help to prevent further damage. For example, a local newspaper recently reported a middle-aged woman's courageous action saved a neighborhood. The woman was the first to hear the fire alarm next door go off. Reportedly, she also noticed smoke coming out of the house. After no one answered the door for a while, she broke the window and was able to extinguish the fire before the fire department arrived. Her courage saved the entire neighborhood from further damage from the fire as a result.

To sum up, those who are amiable and courageous should be qualified to be good neighbors. We should also keep these two qualities in mind and start being good neighbors from ourselves. In so doing, we could all share a safe neighborhood full of joy.
