# What is your education background?

I am a graduate of National Taiwan University, where I enrolled in a BS/MD dual degree program. The program enriched my knowledge in both medical science and computer science. I meticulously planned my academic schedule because of the extra courses I needed for graduation, and such a tight schedule turned out to be rewarding.

The medical school offered a seven-year MD program. The first four years comprise basic medical science, including biochemistry, microbiology, immunology, anatomy, physiology, and pharmacology. To be honest, these required subjects were never easy for me and took me hours of studying every night. There were times I had to stay up late to prepare for the exams. However, it turned out that the materials in the lectures and textbooks were helpful all the way through my clerkships in the fifth and sixth years.

During my clerkship years, I rotated to internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, and OBGYN, and learned to take care of patients under resident and attending physicians' supervision. The seventh year of the MD program is the internship, which means that I was responsible for all aspects of patient care and had 6-8 night shifts a month. I was given more opportunities to operate bedside procedures, including urinary catheterization, intravenous catheterization, and nasogastric tube placement. These experiences are invaluable because there is no other place than my medical school that could offer the same quality and intensity of training.

On top of the seven-year MD program, dual-degree students usually need extra years to fulfill another degree's graduation requirements. In my case, right after I finished the core clerkship in the sixth year, I decided to start an extra dedicated year to take courses from engineering school. I was exposed to intensive math lectures, including calculus, abstract algebra, linear algebra, probability, and statistics. I also learned algorithms and advanced programming techniques. The algorithm courses required me to practically write programs during the exams, which was stressful but also rewarding whenever solving a question.

Last but not least, the program required me to take courses to understand every aspect of a modern computer, including operating systems, computer architecture, and computer networks. Some of the courses encouraged team projects. My teammate and I collaborated to build a real-time streaming app as our final project. We broke the app down into different modules, including the internet router, front-end presentation, and database management. Each team member took care of one or two modules before merging all of them into our final app. During this project, I realized that only with teamwork could we meet the deadline and submit our product.

In summary, by meeting all the requirements, I was awarded two diplomas upon graduation, a bachelor's degree in computer science, and a Doctor of Medicine degree. My college education provided me with precious opportunities to explore my interests in professional knowledge. Within such a diverse learning environment, I developed the ability to take a multidisciplinary approach to clinical and real-life problems.
