# What is your favorite version control software?

Building a project and tracking any changes made to it become overwhelming and formidable when the project is heavy enough. Given the predicaments that a project team could face, engineers developed version control software (VCS) to overcome them. Of all the VCS, one is called Git, which is my favorite.

First of all, Git is popular. Git is arguably by far the most widely-adopted tool in academics, open-source projects, industries, etc. While other tools are also available, one of which is Subversion (SVN), a default program installed in Unix/Linux distributions, they are simply not as popular as Git. Because of its popularity, there is no shortage of learning material on the internet. Developers also create dedicated forums to discuss its functionalities, which in turn promote its popularity.

Moreover, Git is undoubtedly powerful and has a great ecosystem. The rationale behind Git as well as all the other version control software is pretty intuitive. These tools are designed to expedite the coordination of codes developed on different computers by different engineers. Any changes made to the original copy are faithfully recorded and any conflicts between the two versions are highlighted. Furthermore, comments are allowed to be made for each line of code to facilitate readability. Since teamwork is usually required, syncing a local project from/onto a remote repository is supported by several online repository providers, for example, GitHub, GitLab, etc.

Last but not least, Git aims to be user-friendly. On one hand, the commands required for the creation of a git project and committing changes are detailed in the help and manual that comes with Git. On the other hand, Git is integrating modern GUI that further makes it easier to use. In the beginning, Git only comprised a terminal program so every command had to be typed in a terminal window. Thankfully, software engineers have encapsulated Git with a GUI or ported it onto existing IDEs to allow for direct access and abridge the need for typing verbose commands. Overall, Git is regarded as a powerful yet easy-to-use tool.

To sum up, Git is my favorite version control software because of its popularity, powerful functionalities, and user-friendliness. I would suggest all developers get their hands dirty and dive into the world of Git. Once familiar with this tool, programmers' life would become much more enjoyable.
