# What is your favorite math tool?

A math tool is a library that allows a variety of math operations. There has been no lack of math tools available for mathematicians or programmers; however, disputes over which math tool is the best have never come to an agreement. As far as I am concerned, I prefer to use Wolfram for my daily use.

To begin with, Wolfram supports interactive programming. Interactivity, or REPL, allows programmers to evaluate an expression and obtain the result immediately without the need to compile an entire program. While some other languages implement such a feature as well, none of them has such a seamless integration with a native notebook. For example, Python programmers have to install Jupyter notebook, a third-party notebook package, to work out. Wolfram's native notebook is not only a big win compared to other languages but also significantly saves beginners from the pain to install endless packages.

Moreover, the math library is comprehensive. Unlike many other math libraries, Wolframs' library contains the most extensive collection of math functions. In addition, the library is native to the language whereas third-party math packages are frequently necessary to compensate for the scarcity of native math functions in other languages. For example, it is not unfamiliar for Python programmers to install a bunch of extra packages in every environment, such as NumPy, SciPy, statsmodel, etc. What's worse is that some rare math functions are yet to be implemented although they are readily available in Wolfram. No wonder Wolfram is more popular with mathematicians because of the comprehensiveness of its math library.

Last but not least, the plotting tools are straightforward to learn and use. Graphics tools that facilitate visualization of data or math functions are a relatively rare feature of programming languages because most languages are designed for general-purpose programming rather than for math. Wolfram designs a plotting library that allows programmers to render plots, such as histograms and scatter plots, with one line of code with all the arguments passed to a caller function. The syntax is so straightforward that just skimming through the documentation is usually enough to work with the library. Again, while some languages, including Python and R, have decently developed plotting libraries, installation of third-party packages is often necessitated.

To sum up, Wolfram is my first choice when it comes to math operations because of its interactivity, comprehensive math library, and straightforward plotting tools. I would suggest all mathematicians take a tour of Wolfram's official website to admire its beauty.
