# What is your favorite sport?

Sport is an integral part of our life whether we are professional athletes or not. As time goes on, not only has the variety of sports been increasing but also the rules of sports have been evolving, which makes a choice of sport more challenging. While everyone has their own respective favorite sports, as far as I am concerned, my favorite sport is running for a few reasons.

To begin with, running is considerably related to health. Aerobic exercise, especially running, reportedly, is beneficial to health with several mechanisms, such as lowering blood pressure, decreasing anxiety and depression, etc. Conversely, those who hardly exercise suffer from diseases at a much earlier age and are inclined to require longer hospitalization. In recognition of the inarguable results of copious prestigious medical research, running is undoubtedly beneficial to health. Consequently, despite the risk of sports injuries, running is recommended to everyone regardless of age according to medical expert panels. For example, when I attended high school, I was quite obese and barely exercised until the school announced that students who ran the most could win a free train ticket. I yearned for the prize so much that I actually registered for the competition and started running frantically every morning. Eventually, I did win the prize, and what is more, I lost almost 10 kilograms and appeared to be in better shape after three months of competition. Running indeed substantially improves my well-being.

Furthermore, running fosters one's perseverance and benefits one's career. An inexperienced runner can be fatigued and is prone to give up after merely minutes of running. Nonetheless, once starting training for long runs, people learn to push themselves step-by-step to meet their daily goals. This exact training strategy can be readily transferred to academic or work settings because, in fact, finishing a long run, just like any professional accomplishment, necessitates stamina. Therefore, unsurprisingly, many leaders confess that they develop a habit of running much before their success stories are heard. To illustrate, at the beginning of my training for the marathon, I also struggled and got tired easily, but, fortunately, my willpower never capitulated to human's inherent laziness. Throughout years of running, I am not only capable of completing a marathon effortlessly but have also grown to be more patient and persistent in my career goals. Thanks to my habits of running, I become more persevering and accomplished in my career.

To sum up, I come to be keen on running not only because of its beneficial effect on my health but also because of the moral lesson it teaches me. Hence, I encourage every one of us to cultivate a habit of running, which will change our lives in a positive way.
