# What is your most unforgettable trip?

Traveling is a way of enriching our life experience. During traveling, we walk out of our comfort zones and explore our true identities in the face of a new environment. As a result, people like traveling, and I am no exception. So far, I have been to a lot of countries, mostly Asian countries, and America. The most unforgettable travel experience for me is the first time I have been to New York City. The journey was educational and made me more independent.

It was December 2017 when I first traveled to the United States. I was on a solo trip so I had to handle everything on my own. Unlike my previous trips, I arrived in New York at midnight because the flight was much cheaper and my budget for the trip was limited. I had to sleep over at JFK airport. I was not able to really fall asleep and constantly stayed alert until the next morning despite extreme fatigue. The anxiety stemmed from the stress of taking care of my belongings and watching out for any unexpected accident. After 5 to 6 hours of struggling with somnolence, I was finally able to take the train to my rental apartment.

My first impression of the city is the enthusiasm and hospitality of its citizens. On arrival at the city center, it was still early in the morning. I came across a middle-aged lady with a suitcase who was heading for the business hotel. She introduced herself to me and said that she noticed me because I seemed to lose my way. Afterward, we started chatting, and she invited me for a breakfast at a local bagel shop. I felt so welcomed in this city, and the hospitality of the lady convinced me that this journey is going to be awesome and unforgettable.

After settling down, I embarked on an in-depth tour of the city. The cultural inheritance the city embraced was so astounding and amazing that I could not take my eyes off it. Every step there was a museum, from arts to music, from historic heritages to modern technology. My brain was loaded with all sorts of information that I had never been in touch with. Experiencing the culture of another country is one of the most beautiful things that traveling brings us. It really broadens our horizons and extends our knowledge beyond dreary textbooks.

To sum up, so many beautiful things and people occurred to me on my first trip to New York City. I still remembered how worried I was the night I slept over at the airport, and how grateful I was to that hospitable lady that treated me like family. Most important of all, the cultural heritages that the museums and the community demonstrated to me were absolutely ineffable. The travel experience has been engraved in my mind without a doubt.
