# What are the types of operating systems?

An operating system (OS) is a disinterested intermediary between user applications and computer hardware. It is intangible but dominates the resources that come with a computer system, and manipulates how each program running on the machine interacts and shares the limited resources. No other words than monarch can better depict the role of the OS. Despite its essence being software, its privilege is utterly insuperable since it is the only software that has direct control over the resources. The OS is also responsible for the integrity of the programs reliant on it and deters the infringement from extraneous instructions unless directed otherwise. Certain core instructions are designed to be more impregnable so that even the most advanced hacking techniques surrender.

The OS may come with a graphical user interface or not, but the kernel, the heart that confers its authority, is consistently existent. Its architecture varies based on the extent of its codes inhabiting kernel space or user space. On the two ends of the spectrum are the monolithic kernel and microkernel. Any designs located in between are termed a hybrid.

Microkernel only retains components that must dwell in a privileged mode such that its integrity is warranted. These components, although scientists have yet to reach a consensus, comprise (1) CPU clock, (2) process/thread management, and (3) synchronization. Since these components are so imperative that hardware also aids in their implementation. Microkernel advocates the reusability of each component via extraordinary modularity. File service, device drivers, etc, are each wrapped into a standalone piece of the whole puzzle. Standardized APIs are provided to allow for putting all pieces together to build an application. The interaction of each module is coordinated and scrutinized by the kernel.

In contrast to the microkernel, the monolithic kernel implements all components in the kernel space by stacking them up in a hierarchical manner. A user application invokes a system call to use specific functionality provided by the kernel. In this way, the user application is believed to execute more efficiently since these codes run directly in the kernel space without the kernel's coordination.

The disputes over the design of the OSes contribute to the diversity of variants available on the market. The tremendous effort necessitated to bring into being a reliable and faithful system deters half-hearted laymen and shows off its taciturn intricacy and refinement to committed experts. The major OSes in the market are briefed as below.
