# What should an ideal city look like?

A city is a complex combination of elements, from infrastructures to people living within. Every combination gives rise to a unique appearance. No city in the world is built in exactly the same way, and there is no single answer to what an ideal city should look like. As far as I am concerned, certain aspects of a city have more importance, which I will detail as follows.

The separation of commercial areas and residential areas is important. In many developing countries and cities, traditional marketplaces are interspersed among residential houses. Also, residents and businesses sometimes share the same apartment. Such design, in fact, puts residents in danger. For one thing, restaurants hiding in the apartment may result in fires that could cost residents' life. Moreover, the residents have to face strangers who work in their neighborhood, which also compromises the residents' safety of life and property. While the separation may bring inconvenience when residents need to purchase daily necessities, the resulting security is irreplaceable.

Spacious roads are also a necessary element of an ideal city. There are several disadvantages of narrow streets. Narrow streets usually have no well-designed sidewalks, which forces vehicles and pedestrians to compete for access to roads. Furthermore, the traffic gets even heavier during the rush hour when all the vehicles manage to drive through a narrow street. Poorly-designed street networks result in not only more traffic accidents but also a longer commute time. While wider streets occupy more space, they improve pedestrian safety and greatly lower the cost of commuting.

In summary, a city that separates commercial areas and residential areas can improve the quality and security of life. In addition, more spacious roads keep pedestrians safe and make commuting less intimidating. Both elements are essential for an ideal city. If there is a chance to renovate a city, separating commercial buildings from residential houses would definitely be my top priority.
