# What other subjects do you want to study?

Education is not only how knowledge is inherited from our ancestors but also how we sharpen our wisdom for greater achievement. Given the depth and breadth of human knowledge, no single person in the modern era can master all subjects of study. Hence, at some point in our education, we all have to choose one or two subjects to specialize in.

As far as I am concerned, I am a college graduate, who had been studying in college for eight years before being awarded a Doctor of Medicine degree and a bachelor's degree in computer science and engineering. Consequently, I think it is appropriate to say that I have devoted my whole twenties to the study of science, which leads me to ponder the possibility of studying art, more specifically, music. In fact, I have always been dreaming of mastering music someday in the future.

To begin with, my experience of playing the trumpet definitely plays a role in my choice. Back in my high school years, I happened to have an opportunity to play for a school band after passing a fundamental musicology exam. At first, such a decision was out of curiosity and was encouraged by my parents. After exploration with a few musical instruments, I decided to master the trumpet and my journey in the school band started. To be honest, playing music was the happiest few years before college. Although some may suppose that I could continue to pursue my dream to be a musician, the reality is that being a musician is never an easy thing in Taiwan because of future career prospects. As a result, I was discouraged by my teachers and parents to enter a music school. Instead, because of my academic performance, I got enrolled in a BS/MD program, which turned out to be an achievement that others were envious of. However, deep inside my heart, I never forget my initial dream to study music because of the immense pleasure while I play the trumpet.

Besides, majoring in science made me realize the value of art and humanity. During my college years, the professors put emphasis on mathematics and logical reasoning while ignoring aesthetics and the ability to appreciate literature and art. That said, I am grateful to my professors who taught me practical and necessary knowledge for me to practice medicine as a physician, a highly rewarding profession. Nonetheless, the more I studied science, the more I felt that art is what makes humanity. More precisely, science analyzes humans and the universe by breaking them down into small pieces or particles whereas art constructs the beauty of the world from basic elements. Moreover, I always feel that I am more of a poet or musician than a scientist or physician deep inside my heart. For instance, a piece of beautiful musical work can strike a chord with me so powerfully that the melody can linger in my head every night for weeks. Obviously, my sentiment is tightly connected to music, which is another reason why I believe I should pursue music or should have also majored in music.

All in all, if there is another subject which I can choose to study, that is definitely music because of the immense joy while I play the trumpet and the tight connection between me and music. In fact, I am currently planning to study music in graduate school for some years in my late thirties. For me, it is a dream to come true.
