# Why is music important to many people?

Music, as a form of art, is composed of musical notes and used to convey the composer's sentiment to the audience. Throughout human history, music has invariably been an indispensable part of our life and has had a tremendous influence on individuals and society.

To begin with, music offers consolation to those in distress. During cognitive development, our brain is conditioned to react to a calming melody with a surging level of serotonin, a hormone that is negatively correlated to depression. Consequently, on hearing a piece of calming melody, we feel such a sense of serenity and peace that many would resort to music in times of difficulty. Take me for example. Whenever I feel desperate and hopeless because of a major setback, Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata comes to my rescue and saves me from a downward spiral. Listening to the music, I am so touched by Beethoven, who overcame his hearing disability to make the masterpiece, that I am able to pull myself together again. Music definitely plays a role in eliminating my desperation.

Furthermore, music is a huge industry that matters millions of jobs in the world. First, the production of music requires a team of composers, directors, and performers, which is made possible by the massive educational system. In addition, each concert relies on tens of personnel efforts to take care of the details, such as renovating the stage, scheduling, disciplining the audience, and so on. Moreover, the quality of music is enhanced and heightened by a vast group of professional critics who critically appraise every aspect of a piece of music. Taken together, the music industry is estimated to make a profit of over 50 billion in a year throughout the globe. If it were not for music, millions of jobs would vanish and talented musicians would end up with a less prolific and fruitful life. In short, music production is a collaborative accomplishment of every music worker and plays an imperative role in the economy.

To sum up, music is undoubtedly influential to people not only because it heals a heart that is broken or a mind that is stressed but also because of the economic effect it brings about. As a result, no one can ever imagine a universe or a day without music in our life.
