# Why to be a phycisian in Singapore?

I have been dreaming of becoming a physician in a foreign country for a long time. I happened to take a trip to Singapore back in 2012 and had a fantastic tour of the NUS campus and hospital. I was kindly introduced to the Singapore healthcare and residency training system by the hosting medical students. Since then, Singapore has been my top choice of places where I would love to practice medicine. I will elaborate on why I apply for residency with MOHH. My prior experience in Singapore definitely had an impact on me.

First of all, I felt the vigor of the medical students and physicians in Singapore the moment I stepped into the NUS campus. The medical students were proud of their school and passionately introduced the cultures and faculties to me. In addition, on a visit to the NUS Hospital, I could feel that the physicians showed great passion for their jobs. The passion spread to the colleagues and also the students. The spirit and vigor touched me and made me believe that working in Singapore could be a pleasant experience.

Secondly, I see enormous career prospects in Singapore as a physician. Singapore also has one of the best universities in the world. Some of the residency training programs are of high quality and recognized even by a few English-speaking countries. Moreover, the top universities provide various research opportunities that enable physicians to explore novel diagnostics and treatments in their respective areas. The quality of training and research resources is what attracts me the most to build my medical career in Singapore.

Last but not the least, I have always aspired to serve patients from diverse cultures and heterogenous races. Singapore has been regarded as the regional medical hub and is able to provide me with an ideal training environment. On one hand, ethnic diversity in patients allows clinical studies to generalize to the whole population in the world. On the other hand, international patients seeking medical care in Singapore bring learning opportunities to physicians. Furthermore, the revenues from the international medical service make the healthcare system more sustainable and allow for high quality.

Overall, I believe that practicing medicine in Singapore is a wise choice and one step closer to my goal. For one thing, the passion and vigor of the students and physicians bring me motivation for patient care. Furthermore, the career prospects are promising in terms of world-recognized residency training and research quality. Meanwhile, international medical service benefits both the patients and the trained physicians. To be able to practice medicine in Singapore would be a great honor.
