# Will there be fewer cars in 20 years?

The automobile, a means of transportable, is heavily depended upon by humans for long-distance traveling in view of its several advantages. However, In recognition of its pollution, scientists and governments have been striving to reduce our reliance on automobiles although such an effort has not been particularly successful. As far as I am concerned, I hold the opinion that the popularity of cars will only grow in the next 20 years.

To begin with, automobiles are so convenient that humans simply cannot help but rely on them. A car allows a family to arrange a trip more flexibly without the destination being restricted by public transportation or the time being wasted over a long walk. Consequently, although owning a car can be costly in consideration of the tax and fuel prices, people still yearn for the convenience it brings. For instance, when it comes to group trips, my friends and I always come to a unanimous agreement to either rent or borrow a camper van so that we can visit more tourist attractions within a limited time. We simply cannot travel without automobiles.

Further, automobiles prevent the transmission of infectious diseases. Public transportation has been regarded as conducive to the dissemination of airborne pathogens simply because people are contained in a narrow and poorly-ventilated space. In contrast, since cars divide passengers into separate spaces that prohibit close contact, they are considered a safer measure of transportation during a pandemic. Take the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic for example. During the most difficult time, my country used to enforce a strict restriction on the daily number of passengers allowed to board the subway, which greatly limited its access to commuters and the public. Instead, the government encouraged people to make use of automobiles by lowering the tax. This policy demonstrates the ongoing need for cars as transportation, particularly during the pandemic.

To sum up, I believe that the number of cars is only going to rise in the future not only because of their convenience but also because of their prevention of the transmission of infectious diseases. Hence, I suggest governments and scientists be prepared for a future with more automobiles in use.
