## 2017-09-20

- Network edge: _host = end system_
	- End systems are also referred to as hosts because they host application programs.
	- Models: __client/server model__ v.s. __peer-peer model__.
- Access networks: digital subscriber line (DSL), cable, fiber to the home (FTTH), dial-up, satellite, ethernet, WiFi, 3G, and LTE.
- __Digital subscriber line (DSL)__:
	- A residence typically obtains DSL Internet access from the same local telephone company (telco) that provides its wired local phone access.
	- Each customer's DSL modem uses the existing telephone line to exchange data with a __digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM)__ located in the telco's local __central office (CO)__.
	- On the customer side, a splitter separates the data and telephone signals arriving to the home and forwards the data signal to the DSL modem.
	- On the telco side, in the CO, the DSLAM separates the data and phone signals and sends the data into the Internet.
	- Because the downstream and upstream rates are different, the access is said to be _asymmetric_.
	- The maximum transmission rate can be limited by (1) the distance between the home and the CO, (2) the gauge of the twisted-pair line and (3) the degree of electrical interference.
	- DSL provides _dedicated_ access.
- Cable internet access:
	- Cable Internet access makes use of the cable television company's existing cable television infrastructure.
	- Because both fiber and coaxial cable are employed in this system, it is often referred to as __hybrid fiber coax (HFC)__.
	- The cable modem is typically an external device and connects to the home PC through an Ethernet port.
	- At the cable head end, the __cable modem termination system (CMTS)__ serves a similar function as the DSL network’s DSLAM.
	- Access is typically _asymmetric_.
	- Cable Internet access is a _shared_ broadcast medium.
- Fiber to the home (FTTH):
	- Two competing optical technologies: __active optical networks (AONs)__ and __passive optical networks (PONs)__.
- Physical media: __guided__ v.s. __unguided__ media
	- _Guided_: twisted pair copper wire, coaxial cable, fiber optics.
	- _Unguided_: terrestrial radio channels, satellite radio channels.
- __Circuit switching__:
	- A _dedicated_ end-to-end connection between the two hosts.
	- Bandwidth is divided into "pieces" with either __frequency-division multiplexing (FDM)__ or __time-division multiplexing (TDM)__.
- __Packet switching__:
	- Each packet travels through communication links and __packet switches__ (__routers__ and __link-layer switches__).
	- Each packet uses _full link_ bandwidth.
	- __Store-and-forward transmission__: the packet switch must receive the entire packet before it can begin to transmit the first bit of the packet onto the outbound link.
- Four sources of packet delay: _processing delay_, _queueing delay_, _transmission delay_, _propagation delay_.
