## 2017-11-07

- The $R(A)$ stands for the __range__ of $A$, which is essentially the column space of $A$. Let $f(x)=A_{m×n}x$:
    - The domain of $f=\mathbb{R}^n$
    - The range of $f=\{b\in\mathbb{R}^m|Ax=b\}=R(A)=C(A)$
    - The kernel of $f=\{x\in\mathbb{R}^n|Ax=0\}=N(A)$
- If $U$ is the row echelon form of $A$, $C(A)≠C(U)$, but they have the same dimension. For $U$, the columns w/ pivots are a basis for $C(U)$. Then, the corresponding columns of $A$ form a basis for $C(A)$. Since the two systems $Ax=0$ and $Ux=0$ are equivalent and have the same solutions. A nontrivial solution $x$ means a linear combination of columns of $U$, hence the same linear combination of columns of $A$. So, if a set of columns of $U$ is independent, then so are the corresponding column of $A$ and vice versa. To find a basis of $C(A)$, we pick those columns of $A$, which corresponds to the columns of $U$ w/ pivots.
- The dimension of the column space = the rank $r$, which also equals the dimension of the row space. # of independent columns = # of independent rows. Or, column rank = row rank.
- Given $A_{m×n}$. For $A$, dimension of $C(A)$ $+$ dimension of $N(A)$ = # of columns of $A$, i.e., $r+(n-r)=n$. For $A^\top$, dimension of $C(A^\top)$ $+$ dimension of $N(A^\top)$ = # of columns of $A^\top$, i.e., $r+(m-r)=m$.
- To find the left nullspace of $A_{m×n}$, we compute $L^{-1}PA=U$. The last $m-r$ rows of $L^{-1}P$ must be a basis for the left nullspace since the last $m-r$ rows of $L^{-1}P$ are independent and dimension of the left nullspace is also $m-r$.
- __Orthogonality__: $C(A)\bot N(A^\top)≤\mathbb{R}^m$. $C(A^\top)\bot N(A)≤\mathbb{R}^n$.
- _Existence_ and _Uniqueness_ of solution to $Ax=b$. Given $A_{m×n}$:
    - _Existence_: The system $Ax=b$ has at least one solution $x$ for every $b$ iff the columns span $\mathbb{R}^m$ ($r=m$). In this case, $\exists$ a right inverse $R_{n\times m}$ s.t. $AR=I_m$. This is possible only if $m≤n$.
    - _Uniqueness_: The system $Ax=b$ has at most one solution $x$ for every $b$ iff the columns are linearly independent ($r=n$). In this case, $\exists$ a left inverse $L_{n\times m}$ s.t. $LA=I_n$. This is possible only if $m≥n$.
- The following statements about a matrix $A_{n\times n}$ are equivalent:
    - $A$ is nonsingular.
    - The rows/columns of $A$ span $\mathbb{R}^n$.
    - The rows/columns of $A$ are linearly independent.
    - Elimination can be completed: $PA=LDU$.
    - $A$ is invertible.
    - Determinant of $A≠0$.
    - $0$ is not an eigenvalue of $A$.
    - $A$ is positive definite.
- $A$ transforms $x$ into $Ax$:
    - Stretch: $A=\begin{bmatrix} c & 0 \\ 0 & c \end{bmatrix}$
    - Rotation of 90°: $A=\begin{bmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$
    - Reflection about $x=y$: $A=\begin{bmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$
    - Projection onto $x$-axis: $A=\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 \end{bmatrix}$
- Let $V$ and $V'$ be vector spaces of $F$. A linear transformation $T$ from $V$ to $V'$ is a function from $V$ to $V'$ that preserves the operations on $V$ and $V'$, i.e., $∀x,y\in V$, $∀α\in F$, $T(αx+y)=αTx+Ty$.
- Linear transformation $T=\frac{d}{dt}: P_n(\mathbb{R})\to  P_{n-1}(\mathbb{R})$.
    - Nullspace: $N(T)=P_0(\mathbb{R})$. Dimension $=1$.
    - Range: $C(T)=P_{n-1}(\mathbb{R})$. Dimension (rank) $=n$.
- Linear transformation $T=\int_0^t: P_n(\mathbb{R})\to  P_{n+1}(\mathbb{R})$.
    - Nullspace: $N(T)=\{0\}$. Dimension $=0$.
    - Range: $P_{n+1}(\mathbb{R})-P_0(\mathbb{R})$. Dimension (rank) $=n+1$.
