## 2017-12-19

- The __determinant__ of $A$, denoted by det$A$, is a function from $M_n(F)$ to $F$. Let det$A$ = $D(A_i,...,A_n)$, where $A_i$ is $i$-th row of $A$. The __determinant__ of $A$ satisfies the following conditions:
    - The det$A$ is a linear function of the $i$-th row when the other $(n-1)$ rows are held fixed. $D(A_1,...,αA_i+A_i',...,A_n) = αD(A_1,...,A_i,...,A_n) + D(A_1,...,A_i',...,A_n)$
    - det$A$ = 0 if $A$ has two identical rows.
    - det$I$ = 1.
    - det$P_{ij}A$ = -det$A$, where $P_{ij}$ is a permutation matrix. __Proof__: $D(A_1,...,A_i+A_j,...,A_j+A_i,...,A_n)$ = 0 = $D(A_1,...,A_i,...,A_j,...,A_n)$ + $D(A_1,...,A_j,...,A_i,...,A_n)$.
    - det$E_{ij}A$ = det$A$, where $E_{ij}$ is an elementary matrix. __Proof__: $D(A_1,...,A_i+αA_j,...,A_j,...,A_n)$ = $D(A_1,...,A_i,...,A_j,...,A_n)$ + $αD(A_1,...,A_j,...,A_j,...,A_n)$ = $D(A_1,...,A_i,...,A_j,...,A_n)$.
    - If $A$ has a row of zeros, then det$A$ = 0.
    - If $A$ is triangular, then det$A$ = $a_{11}...a_{nn}$.
    - If $A$ is singular, then det$A$ = 0. If $A$ is invertible, then det$A$ ≠ 0.
    - det$AB$ = det$A$det$B$.
    - det$A^\top$ = det$A$. __Proof__: If $A$ is singular, then $A^\top$ is singular. If $A$ is nonsingular, then $PA=LDU$. Since det$P$det$A$ = det$L$det$D$det$U$ = det$D$ and det$A^\top$det$P^\top$ = det$U^\top$det$D^\top$det$L^\top$ = det$D^\top$, hence, det$P$det$A$ = det$A^\top$det$P^\top$. Since $PP^\top = I$, hence, det$P$det$P^\top$ = 1. Hence, det$A$ = det$A^\top$.
    - If $A$ is nonsingular, then $A = P^{-1}LDU$. det$A$ = ± product of pivots.
- det$A$ is the sum of $n!$ terms and for each item, every row and column contribute to it.
- det$A$ = $a_{i1}A_{i1} + ... + a_{in}A_{in}$, where the cofactor $A_{ij} = (-1)^{i+j}$det$M_{ij}$, and $M_{ij}$ is a submatrix of $A$ by deleting row $i$ and column $j$ of $A$.
- Computation of $A^{-1}$: $\begin{bmatrix} a_{11} & ... & a_{1n} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ a_{n1} & ... & a_{nn} \end{bmatrix}$ $\begin{bmatrix} A_{11} & ... & A_{n1} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ A_{1n} & ... & A_{nn} \end{bmatrix}$ = $\begin{bmatrix} \text{det}A & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & \ddots & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & \text{det}A \end{bmatrix}$ = (det$A$)$I$.
- __Cramer's rule__.
- Volume of a parallelepiped:
    - If rows of $A$ are mutually perpendicular, then det$A$ = ± $l_1...l_n$ = ± volume of the parallelepiped, where $l_i$ is the length of row $i$.
    - Otherwise, perform orthogonalization first.
