## 2017-10-17

- The solution to $Ax=b$, where $A$ is a square matrix:
    - $A$ is not singular &rArr; $x=A^{-1}b$.
    - $A$ is singular and $b=0$ &rArr; $x$ is in the nullspace of $A$.
    - $A$ is singular and $b\ne0$ &rArr; no solution or infinitely many solution.
- A matrix $R_{m\times n}$ is called a __row echelon matrix__ if
    - The nonzero rows come first and the pivots are the first nonzero entries in those rows.
    - Below each pivot is a column of zeros.
    - Each pivot lies to the right of the pivot in the row above.
- A matrix $R_{m\times n}$ is called a __row-reduced echelon matrix__ if
    - The nonzero rows come first and the pivots are the first nonzero entries in those rows and _normalized to be 1_.
    - _Above and below_ each pivot is a column of zeros.
    - Each pivot lies to the right of the pivot in the row above.
- To any matrix $A_{m\times n}$, there exist a permuatation matrix $P$, a lower triangular matrix $L$ w/ unit diagnoal, and a row echelon matrix $U_{m\times n}$ such that $PA = LU$. Every matrix $A_{m\times n}$ is __row equivalent__ to a row echelon matrix.
- Homogeneous cases ($b=0$):
    - The components of $x$ which correspond to columns w/ pivots are called __pivot variables__, and those corresponding to columns w/o pivots are called __free variables__.
    - The pivot variables are expressed in terms of free variables by back substitution.
    - Set one free variable to be 1 and the others to be zero and solve $Ux=0$ for pivot variables.
    - The combination of the solutions from each free variable is the solution.
    - The solution set of $Ax=0$ is the nullspace of $A$, i.e. $x\in N(A)$.
- If a homogeneous system $A_{m\times n}x = 0$ has more unknowns than equations ($m < n$), it has a nontrivial solution.
- The nullspace is a subspace of the same dimension (degree of freedom) as the number of free variables.
- Inhomogeneous cases ($b\ne0$):
    - The pivot variables are expressed in terms of free variables by back substitution.
    - _Particular solution_: Set all free variables to 0 and solve $Ux=L^{-1}b$ for pivot variables.
    - _Homogeneous solution_: Set one free variable to be 1 and the others to be zero and solve $Ux=0$ for pivot variables.
    - $x=x_p+x_h$, where $x$ is the general solution, $x_p$ is the particular solution, and $x_h$ is the homogeneous solution.
- The set of general solutions is not a subspace since it does not contain the zero vector (origin). It is parallel to the nullspace of $A$.
- Given a matrix $A_{m\times n}$, if there are $r$ pivots, there are $r$ pivot variables and $n-r$ free variables. The number of pivots, $r$, is called the __rank__ of $A$.
- Suppose elimination reduces $A_{m\times n}x=b$ to $Ux=L^{-1}b$ and there are $r$ pivots. Then, the last $m-r$ rows of $U$ are zeros, and there are $n-r$ free variables.
    - If $r=m$, threre are $n-r$ free variables and the column space $C(A) = \mathbb{R}^m$. There's always a solution, which is the sum of particular solution and a homogeneous solution.
    - If $r=n$, there are no free variables and the nullspace contains $x=0$ only, i.e. $N(A) = \{0\}$. There is a solution only if the last $m-r$ elements of $L^{-1}b$ are zeros as well.
- Let $V$ be a vector space over $F$. A nonempty subset $S$ of $V$ is said to be __linearly dependent__ if there exist distinct vectors $v_1,v_2,...,v_n$ in $S$ and at least one nonzero scalars $\alpha_1,\alpha_2,...,\alpha_n$ in $F$ s.t. $\alpha_1v_1  + \alpha_2v_2 + ... + \alpha_n v_n=0$; Otherwise, $S$ are __linearly independent__.
- To show that $v_1,v_2,...,v_n$ are linearly independent, we should verify that if $\alpha_1v_1  + \alpha_2v_2 + ... + \alpha_n v_n=0$ for some $\alpha_i\in F$, then $\alpha_i$ must be zero for all $i$.
- In $\mathbb{R}^2$, if $v_1$ and $v_2$ are not colinear iff they are linearly independent. Any three vectors in $\mathbb{R}^2$ are linearly dependent.
- If $v_1=v_2$, the the set $\{v_1,v_2,...,v_n\}$ are linearly dependent.
- Any set which contains zero vector is linearly dependent.
