## 2017-12-12

- Let $\{q_1,...,q_n\}$ be orthonormal basis. $\forall b\in\mathbb{R}^n$, $\exists x=(x_1,...,x_n)\in\mathbb{R}^n$, $b = x_1q_1+...+x_nq_n$.
    - Let $Q = [q_1,...,q_n]$. Then, $x = Q^{-1}b = Q^⊤b$.
    - The coefficients $x_i = q_i^⊤b$. Hence, $b = (q_1^⊤b)q_1 + ... + (q_n^⊤b)q_n$.
    - $(q_i^⊤b)q_i$ is the projection of $b$ onto $q_i$.
- Let $Q_{m\times n}$ ($m > n$) be a matrix with orthogonal columns. $Q^⊤Q = I_{n\times n}$. $Q^⊤$ is the left inverse of $Q$.
- _Proposition_: Let $Q_{m\times n}$ ($m > n$) be a matrix with orthogonal columns. The least square solution to the normal equation $Qx=b$ is $\tilde{x} = Q^⊤b$. The projection matrix $P = QQ^⊤$.
- Norm (length) of a vector $x\in\mathbb{R}^n$: $‖x‖_1=\sum|x_i|$. $‖x‖_2=\sqrt{\sum x_i^2}$. $‖x‖_∞ = \max|x_i|$.
- _Theorem_: Let $V$ be an inner product space and $S = \{x_1,...,x_n\}$ be an orthogonal set of nonzero vectors. If $y = \sum a_ix_i$, then $a_i = \frac{⟨x_i,y⟩}{⟨x_i,x_i⟩}$.
- Let $\{y_1,y_2\}$ be a linearly independent set. What is the orthogonal set $\{x_1,x_2\}$ that spans the same space as $\{y_1,y_2\}$? $x_1 = y_1$. $x_2 = y_2 - \frac{⟨y_1,y_2⟩}{⟨y_1,y_1⟩}y_1 = (I - \frac{y_1y_1^⊤}{y_1^⊤y_1})y_2$.
- __Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process__: Let $V$ be an inner product space and $S = \{y_1,...,y_n\}$ be a linearly independent set of nonzero vectors. The orthogonal set $S' = \{x_1,...,x_n\}$ that spans the same space as $S$: $x_1 = y_1$. $x_i = y_i - \sum_{k=1}^{i-1} \frac{⟨x_k,y_i⟩}{⟨x_k,x_k⟩}x_k$.
- _Theorem_: Every $A_{m\times n}$ w/ linearly independent columns can be factored into $A = Q_{m\times n}R_{n\times n}$. The columns of $Q$ are orthonormal and $R$ is an invertible upper triangular matrix. When $m=n$ and all matrices are square, $Q$ is orthogonal.
    - Let $a_1,...,a_n$ be the columns of $A$.
    - By Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization process, we can construct orthonormal vectors $q_1,...,q_n$ s.t. for $i=1,...,n$, span$\{q_1,...,q_i\}$ = span$\{a_1,...,a_i\}$.
    - For $i=1,...,n$, let $q_i' = a_i - \sum_{k=1}^{i-1} (q_k^⊤a_i)q_k$, and $q_i = \frac{q_i'}{‖q_i'‖}$.
    - $a_i = (q_1^⊤a_i)q_i + ... + (q_{i-1}^⊤a_i)q_{i-1} + ‖q_i'‖q_i$, which is linear combination of $q_1,...,q_i$.
    - Hence, $A = QR = [q_1,...,q_n]\begin{bmatrix} ‖q_1'‖ & ... & q_1^⊤a_n \\ 0 & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & ‖q_n'‖ \end{bmatrix}$
- An inconsistent system $Ax = b$, where $A$ has linearly independent columns, can be transformed into a consistent one. $Ax = b$ &rarr; $A^⊤A\tilde{x} = A^⊤b$ &rarr; $R^⊤R\tilde{x} = R^⊤Q^⊤b$ &rarr; $R\tilde{x} = Q^⊤b$.
- Let $x = r\cosθ$, $y = r\sinθ$, $z = z$. Then, $\begin{bmatrix} dx \\ dy \\ dz \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} \cosθ & -r\sinθ & 0 \\ \sinθ & r\cosθ & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} dr \\ dθ \\ dz \end{bmatrix}$. Hence, $dV = dxdydz = \begin{vmatrix} \cosθ & -r\sinθ & 0 \\ \sinθ & r\cosθ & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 \end{vmatrix} drdθdz = rdrdθdz$.
