## 2017-09-19

- Solving a linear system $Ax=b$ with __Gaussian elimination__ involves __forward elimination__ and __back substitution__.
- By definition, pivots _cannot_ be zero.
- Under what circumstances could the process break down?
	- Something must go wrong in the singular case.
	- Something might go wrong in the nonsingular case.
	- We do not know whether a zero will appear until we try, by actually going through the elimination process.
- The cost of elimination:
	- One operation: one division/multiplication-subtraction.
	- Forward elimination on LHS: $\sum_{k=1}^n k^2-k = \frac{n^3-n}{3}$
	- Forward elimination on RHS: $(n-1)+(n-2)+...+1 = \frac{n^2-n}{2}$
	- Back substitution: $n+(n-1)+...+1 = \frac{n^2+n}{2}$
	- Total operations: $\frac{n^3-n}{3} + \frac{n^2-n}{2} + \frac{n^2+n}{2} \sim O(n^3)$
	- There now exists a method that requires only $O(n^{\log_2 7})$ multiplications!
- Matrix notation:
	- $Ax=b$: $A$ (coefficients), $x$ (unknowns), and $b$ (RHS).
	- $A\in\mathbb{R}^{m\times n}$: $m\times n$ is called the __dimension (size)__ of $A$.
- Matrix arithmetics:
	- _Addition_: Suppose $A=(a_{ij})_{m\times n}, B=(b_{ij})_{m\times n}$. $A+B=(a_{ij}+b_{ij})_{m\times n}$.
	- _Multiplication_: Suppose $A=(a_{ij})_{m\times n}, B=(b_{ij})_{n\times p}$. $AB=(c_{ij})_{m\times p}$, where $c_{ij}=\sum_{k=1}^n a_{ik}b_{kj}$.
	- _Scalar multiplication_: Suppose $A=(a_{ij})_{m\times n}$. $\alpha A=(\alpha a_{ij})_{m\times n}$
- __Elementary matrix__ (__elimination matrix__):
	- The elementary matrix $E_{ij}$ subtracts $l$ times row $j$ from row $i$. This $E_{ij}$ includes $−l$ in row $i$, column $j$.
	- Gaussian elimination is essentially a series of $E(Ax) = Eb$.
- Different ways to look at matrix multiplication:
	- Each entry of $AB$ is the product of a row and a column: $(AB)_{ij}$ = (row $i$ of $A$) times (column $j$ of $B$).
	- Each column of $AB$ is the product of a matrix and a column: column $j$ of $AB$ = $A$ times (column $j$ of $B$).
	- Each row of $AB$ is the product of a row and a matrix: row $i$ of $AB$ = (row $i$ of $A$) times $B$.
- Matrix multiplication is associative, distributive, but _not_ commutative.
- The product of lower triangular matrices is lower triangular.
