## 2017-10-31

- A set $S$ of vectors in $V/F$ is linearly independent iff for each finite subset of $S$ is linearly independent.
- The nullspace of $A$ is $\{0\}$ iff columns of $A$ are linearly independent.
- Given a row echelon matrix $U$:
    - Nonzero rows of $U$ are linearly independent.
    - Columns containing the pivots are linearly independent.
- Example: In $\mathbb{R}^n$, $e_1,e_2,...,e_n$ are linearly independent.
- To check linear dependency of any set of vectors $v_1,v_2,...,v_n \in\mathbb{R}^m$, then define $A=[v_1,v_2,...,v_n]$ and solve $Ax=0$:
    - If there exists nonzero solution, then $v$'s are linearly dependent.
    - If there are no free variables (i.e. rank $=n$), then $v$'s are linearly independent.
    - If rank $<n$, then $v$'s are linearly dependent.
    - If $m<n$, then $v$'s are linearly dependent.
- Define $S$ be a set of vectors in $V/F$. The subspace spanned by $S=\{v_1,v_2,...,v_n\}$ is the intersection $W$ of all subspaces of $V$ containing $S$. $W$ is denoted as $\langle v_1,v_2,...,v_n\rangle$ or $\langle S\rangle$.
- Theorem: The subspace $W$ spanned by a nonempty set $S$ of vectors in $V/F$ is the set $T$ of all linear combinations of vectors in $S$.
    - Every linear combinations of vectors in $S$ is in $W$ &rArr; $T\subseteq W$.
    - $T$ is a subspace containing $S$ by definition of subspace. &rArr; $W\subseteq T$.
- $C(A)$ is the space spanned by columns of $A$.
- A __basis__ for a vector space $V/F$ is a set of vectors that satisfies it is linearly independent and it spans the vector space. If the basis of $V/F$ is finite, then $V/F$ is finite-dimensional.
- There's _one and only one_ way to write every $v\in V/F$ as a linear combination of the basis elements.
- The __standard basis__ $\{e_1,e_2,...,e_n\}$ is a basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$.
- For any nonsingular matrix $A_{n×n}$, the columns/rows of $A$ are a basis of $\mathbb{R}^n$.
- The columns of row echelon matrix $U$ that contains pivots are a basis for the column space of $U$.
- Theorem: Any two bases for $V$ contain the same number of vectors. The number is called the __dimension__ of $V$.
- Theorem: For any vector space, there exists a basis.
- Theorem: Given a finite-dimensional vector space $V$. Any linearly independent set in $V$ can be _extended_ to a basis. Any spanning set of $V$ can be _reduced_ to a basis.
- There are 4 fundamental subspaces associated to $A_{m×n}$: __column space__ $C(A)≤\mathbb{R}^m$, __nullspace__ $N(A)≤\mathbb{R}^n$, __row space__ $C(A^\text{T})≤\mathbb{R}^n$, and __left nullspace__ $N(A^\text{T})≤\mathbb{R}^m$.
- If a row echelon matrix $U$ of $A$ has $r$ pivots, then the row space of $A$, or $C(A^\text{T})$, has dimension $r$. Also, $C(A^\text{T})$ and $C(U^\text{T})$ have the same basis, i.e. $C(A^\text{T})=C(U^\text{T})$. Note that $C(A)≠C(U)$.
- Given $A_{m\times n}$. The nullspace $N(A)$ is of dimension $n-r$. A basis of $N(A)$ can be constructed by reducing to $Ux=0$ which has $n-r$ free variables. Let each free variable be 1, in turn, and others be 0, and solve $Ux=0$. The $n-r$ vectors produced in this manner will be a basis for $N(A)$. $N(A)$ is also called the __kernel__ of $A$ and its dimension is called the __nullity__ of $A$.
