## 2017-09-12

- Background:
	- Geometry: to study geometry w/ linearity, e.g. lines in 2D, planes in 3D, and hyperplanes in n-dimensional space.
	- Abstract algebra:
		- Algebra is the study of basic mathematical structures, e.g. groups, rings, fields, etc.
		- Linear algebra studies one of the structures called _vector space_.
		- Followed by logical deduction from basic definitions, we can derive some important theorems.
	- Applied mathematics:
		- Linear algebra is widely used in applied science, like mechanics and differential equations.
		- Linear programming was developed during World War II.
		- Recently, it is widely applied to image processing and computer graphics, etc.
- Introduction:
	- The central problem of linear algebra is the solution of linear equations. The most important and simplest case is when the number of unknown equals the number of equations.
	- There are two ways to solve linear equations: (1) the method of elimination (_Gaussian elimination_), and (2) determinants (_Cramer's rule_).
	- Four aspects that we should look into:
		- The geometry of linear equations.
		- The interpretation of elimination as a factorization of the coefficient matrix, e.g. $Ax = b$, $A = LU$, $A^\mathrm{T}$, $A^{-1}$, etc.
		- Irregular or singular cases, i.e. no solution or infinitely many solutions.
		- The number of operations to solve the system by elimination.
- A vector in an $n \times 1$ array w/ $n$ real numbers. In the text, we usually write it as $(c_1, c_2, ..., c_n) \in \mathbb{R}^n$.
- Geometry of linear equations of two equations in two dimensions:
	- Approach 1: row picture &rarr; two lines in the plane.
	- Approach 2: column picture &rarr; linear combination of two vectors in the plane.
- Geometry of linear equations of three equations in three dimensions:
	- Approach 1: row picture &rarr; three planes in 3 dimensions.
	- Approach 2: column picture &rarr; linear combination of three vectors in 3 dimensions.
- Question: How to extend into $n$ dimensions?
	- Each equation represents an $n-1$-dimensional hyperplane in $n$ dimensions.
	- They intersect at a smaller set in lower dimensions or do not intersect at all.
- The singular cases of three (different) equations in three dimensions from the perspective of row picture:
	- Case 1: all three planes are perpendicular to a common plane &rarr; no solution.
	- Case 2: any two planes are parallel &rarr; no solution.
	- Case 3: three planes intersect in a line &rarr; infinitely many solutions.
	- Case 4: three planes are parallel &rarr; no solution.
- The singular cases of three (different) equations in three dimensions from the perspective of column picture: three vectors are coplanar (in the same plane).
	- The RHS vector is in the plane &rarr; infinitely many solutions.
	- The RHS vector is not in the plane &rarr; no solution.
- If $n$ planes have no point in common, then the $n$ columns lie in the same plane.
