## 2017-10-03

- Properties of transpose: $(A + B)^\text{T} = A^\text{T} + B^\text{T}$; $(A^\text{T})^\text{T} = A$; $(AB)^\text{T} = B^\text{T}A^\text{T}$; $(A^{-1})^\text{T} = (A^\text{T})^{-1}$.
- A __symmetric matrix__ is a matrix that equals its own transpose, i.e. $A^\text{T} = A$.
- A symmetric matrix need _not_ be invertible.
- If A is symmetric and can be factored into $A = LDU$ without row exchanges, then $U$ is the transpose of $L$. The symmetric factorization becomes $A = LDL^\text{T}$.
- $F$ is a __field__ if the system $(F,+,\cdot)$ satisfies the following conditions:
    - Associativity of $+$ and $\cdot$
    - Commutativity of $+$ and $\cdot$
    - Distributivity of $\cdot$ over $+$
    - __Zero__: $\exists 0 \in F$, $\forall a \in F$, s.t. $a+0 = 0+a = a$
    - $\forall a \in F$, $\exists -a \in F$, s.t. $a+(-a) = (-a)+a = 0$
    - __Unity__: $\exists 1 \in F$, $\forall a \in F$, s.t. $a\cdot 1 = 1\cdot a = a$
    - $\forall a \ne 0 \in F$, $\exists a^{-1} \in F$, s.t. $a\cdot a^{-1} = a^{-1}\cdot a = 1$
- $\mathbb{C}, \mathbb{R}, \mathbb{Q}$ are fields. $\mathbb{Z}, \mathbb{N}$ are not.
- $V$ is a __vector space__ over $F$ (denoted as $V/F$) if addition and scalar multiplication are defined on $V$ and satisfy the algebraic rules of vector algebra:
    - Addition is associative.
    - Addition is commutative.
    - $\exists 0\in V$, $\forall v\in V$, s.t. $v+0 = 0+v = v$
    - $\forall v \in V$, $\exists -v\in V$, s.t. $v+(-v) = (-v)+v = 0$
    - $\exists 1\in F$, $\forall v\in V$, s.t. $v\cdot 1 = 1 \cdot v = v$
    - $\forall v \in V$, $\forall \lambda, \mu \in F$, s.t. $(\lambda\mu)v = \lambda(\mu v)$
    - $\forall v \in V$, $\forall \lambda, \mu \in F$, s.t. $(\lambda+\mu)v = \lambda v+\mu v$
    - $\forall v_1,v_2 \in V$, $\forall \lambda \in F$, s.t. $\lambda(v_1+v_2) = \lambda v_1 + \lambda v_2$
- Examples of vector spaces:
    - $\mathbb{R}^n/\mathbb{R}$
    - $\mathbb{R}^{m\times n}/\mathbb{R}$
    - Let $V$ be the set of all symmetric matrices over $\mathbb{R}$. $V/\mathbb{R}$
    - Let $V$ be the set of all real-valued functions defined on $[0,1]$. $V/\mathbb{R}$
    - Let $V$ be the set of all positive $\mathbb{R}$. Define $x+y = xy$ and $cx = x^c$. $V/\mathbb{R}$
- $S$ is a __subspace__ of $V$ over $F$ (denoted as $S\le V$) iff
    - $S$ is a nonempty subset of $V$ s.t. $S$ itself is also a vector space over $F$.
    - $S$ is closed under addition and scalar multiplication, i.e. $\forall x,y \in S$ $\forall \alpha \in F$ s.t. $\alpha x + y \in S$.
- Examples of subspaces of $\mathbb{R}^{m\times n}/\mathbb{R}$:
    - The set of all symmetric matrices.
    - The set of all upper/lower matrices.
    - The set of diagonal matrices.
- The zero vector belongs to every subspace.
- If $w_1$ and $w_2$ are subspaces of $V$ over $F$, then $w_1 \cap w_2 \ne \emptyset$, because $w_1 \cap w_2$ contains at least the zero vector.
- Let $V = \mathbb{R}^2/\mathbb{R}$, the followings are subspaces of $V$: origin, all lines through origin, $V$ itself.
- __Column space__ of $A \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times n}$ (denoted as $C(A) \le \mathbb{R}^m/\mathbb{R}$) is the set of all combinations of columns of $A$.
- The system $Ax=b$ is solvable iff $b \in C(A)$, i.e. $\exists x$ s.t. $Ax=b$ iff $b \in C(A)$.
- Examples of column spaces:
    - $A = 0_{m \times n} \implies C(A) = 0$
    - $A = I_m \implies C(A) = \mathbb{R}^m$
- __Nullspace__ of $A \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times n}$ (denoted as $N(A) \le \mathbb{R}^n/\mathbb{R}$) is $\{ x \in \mathbb{R}^n \mid Ax = 0 \}$
- The system $Ax = 0$ is called a __homogeneous equation__.
- The solution set of $Ax = b$ is _not_ a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n/\mathbb{R}$.
