## 2017-12-07

- Suppose $A ≤_M B$ holds:
    - $A ≤_T B$ holds.
    - If $B$ is recognizable, then $A$ is recognizable.
    - If $A$ is not recognizable, then $B$ is not recognizable.
- Suppose $A ≤_T B$ holds:
    - $A ≤_M B$ does not necessarily hold.
    - If $B$ is decidable, then $A$ is decidable.
    - If $A$ is undecidable, then $B$ is decidable.
- $A_\text{TM}$ and $A_\text{TM}'$ are Turing reducible but not mapping reducible.
    - $A_\text{TM}'$ $\not≤_M$ $A_\text{TM}$ since $A_\text{TM}'$ is not recognizable but $A_\text{TM}$ is.
- HALT$_0$ and HALT$_0'$ are Turing reducible but not mapping reducible.
    - HALT$_0'$ $\not≤_M$ HALT$_0$ since HALT$_0'$ is not recognizable but HALT$_0$ is.
- __Theorem__: If $A ≤_M B$, then $A' ≤_M B'$.
    - If $A ≤_M B$, then there exists a computable function $f$ such that $w∈A$ iff $f(w)∈B$.
    - $w∈A$ iff $w∉A'$ and $f(w)∈B$ iff $f(w)∉B'$.
    - $w∉A'$ iff $f(w)∉B'$
    - $w∈A'$ iff $f(w)∈B'$. Hence, $A' ≤_M B'$.
- __Theorem__: $L_0$ is undecidable. (Intuition: $A_\text{TM} ≤_T L_0$)
    - Let a decider for $L_0$ be $H$ := On input $⌊M⌋$: Accept if $L(M) = ∅$. Reject if $L(M) ≠ ∅$.
    - Define $M'(M,w)$ := On input $x$: Reject if $x ≠ w$. Otherwise, run $M$ on $w$. Accept if $M$ accepts $w$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $(M,w)$: Construct $M'(M,w)$. Run $H$ on $⌊M'⌋$. Accept if $H$ rejects $⌊M'⌋$. Reject if $H$ accepts $⌊M'⌋$.
    - If $H$ decides $L_0$, then D decides $A_\text{TM}$ . $A_\text{TM}$ is undecidable, so $L_0$ is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: $L_1$ is undecidable. (Intuition: $A_\text{TM} ≤_T L_1$)
    - Let a decider for $L_1$ be $H$ := On input $⌊M⌋$: Accept if $L(M) = Σ^*$. Reject if $L(M) ≠ Σ^*$.
    - Define $M'(M,w)$ := On input $x$: Accept if $x ≠ w$. Otherwise, run $M$ on $w$. Reject if $M$ accepts $w$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $(M,w)$: Construct $M'(M,w)$. Run $H$ on $⌊M'⌋$. Accept if $H$ rejects $⌊M'⌋$. Reject if $H$ accepts $⌊M'⌋$.
    - If $H$ decides $L_1$, then D decides $A_\text{TM}$ . $A_\text{TM}$ is undecidable, so $L_1$ is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: $L_2$ is undecidable. (Intuition: $A_\text{TM} ≤_T L_2$)
    - Let a decider for $L_2$ be $H$ := On input $⌊M⌋$: Accept if $M$ accepts $ε$. Reject if $M$ rejects $ε$.
    - Define $M'(M,w)$ := On input $x$: Accept if $x ≠ ε$. Otherwise, run $M$ on $w$. Accept if $M$ accepts $w$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $(M,w)$: Construct $M'(M,w)$. Run $H$ on $⌊M'⌋$. Accept if $H$ accepts $⌊M'⌋$. Reject if $H$ rejects $⌊M'⌋$.
    - If $H$ decides $L_2$, then D decides $A_\text{TM}$ . $A_\text{TM}$ is undecidable, so $L_2$ is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: $L_5$ is undecidable. (Intuition: $A_\text{TM} ≤_T L_5$)
    - Let a decider for $L_5$ be $H$ := On input $⌊M⌋$: Accept if $L(M)$ is regular. Reject if $L(M)$ is non-regular.
    - Define $M'(M,w)$ := On input $x$: Accept if $x$ has the form $0^n1^n$. Otherwise, run $M$ on $w$. Accept if $M$ accepts $w$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $(M,w)$: Construct $M'(M,w)$. Run $H$ on $⌊M'⌋$. Accept if $H$ accepts $⌊M'⌋$. Reject if $H$ rejects $⌊M'⌋$.
    - If $H$ decides $L_5$, then D decides $A_\text{TM}$ . $A_\text{TM}$ is undecidable, so $L_5$ is undecidable.
