## 2017-12-14

- __Theorem__: PCP is undecidable.
    - From any TM $M$ and input $w$, we can construct an instance $P$ where a match is an accepting of $M$ on $w$.
    - Dominos $P'$: (1) [$\frac{\#}{\#q_0w_1...w_n\#}$]; (2) [$\frac{qa}{br}$] if $δ(q,a) = (r,b,\text{R})$; (3) [$\frac{cqa}{rcb}$] if $δ(q,a) = (r,b,\text{L})$; (4) [$\frac{a}{a}$] for every $a ∈ Γ$; (5) [$\frac{\#}{\#}$] and [$\frac{\#}{⊔\#}$]; (6) [$\frac{aq_\text{accept}}{q_\text{accept}}$] and [$\frac{q_\text{accept}a}{q_\text{accept}}$] for every $a ∈ Γ$; (7) [$\frac{q_\text{accept}\#\#}{\#}$].
    - Define $*u$, $u*$, and $*u*$ to be the three strings: (1) $*u = *u1*...*u_n$; (2) $u* = u1*...*u_n*$; (3) $*u* = *u1*...*u_n*$.
    - Dominos $P'$: [$\frac{t_1}{b_1}$] = [$\frac{\#}{\#q_0w_1...w_n\#}$], ..., [$\frac{t_k}{b_k}$].
    - Dominos $P$: [$\frac{*t_1}{*b_1*}$], [$\frac{*t_1}{b_1*}$], ..., [$\frac{*t_k}{b_k*}$], [$\frac{*@}{@}$].
- __Theorem__: CFL-Intersection is undecidable. (Intuition: PCP $≤_T$ CFL-Intersection)
    - Let a decider for CFL-Intersection be $H$ := On input $(G_1,G_2)$: Accept if $L(G_1) ∩ L(G_2) ≠ ∅$. Reject if $L(G_1) ∩ L(G_2) = ∅$.
    - Define $G_1'((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$ := Let $Σ$ be the set of alphabets used in $((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$. $L(G_1') = \{ w\#w^R | w ∈ Σ^* \}$.
    - Define $G_2'((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$ := $S → u_iSv_i^R | \#$ for $i = 1,...,n$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$: Construct $G_1'((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$ and $G_2'((u_1,v_1),...,(u_n,v_n))$. Run $H$ on $(G_1',G_2')$. Accept if $H$ accepts $(G_1',G_2')$. Reject if $H$ rejects $(G_1',G_2')$.
    - If $H$ decides CFL-Intersection, then $D$ decides PCP. PCP is undecidable, so CFL-Intersection is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: CFL-Universality ($\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$) is undecidable. (Intuition: $A_\text{TM} ≤_T \text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$)
    - Let a decider for $\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$ be $H$ := On input $⌊G⌋$: Accept if $L(G) = Σ^*$. Reject if $L(G) ≠ Σ^*$.
    - Define $G'(M,w)$ := $L(G') = \{ C_0\#C_1\#...\#C_n \}$ which satisfies any one of the following:
        - $C_0$ is not the initial configuration.
        - $C_n$ is not an accepting configuration.
        - There exists $0≤i<n$ such that $C_i ⊢ C_{i+1}$ does not obey the transition functions for $M$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $(M,w)$: Construct $G'(M,w)$. Run $H$ on $⌊G'⌋$. Accept if $H$ rejects $⌊G'⌋$. Reject if $H$ accepts $⌊G'⌋$.
    - If $H$ decides $\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$, then $D$ decides $A_\text{TM}$. $A_\text{TM}$ is undecidable, so $\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$ is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: CFL-Subset is undecidable.
    - Let a decider for CFL-Subset be $H$ := On input $(G_1,G_2)$: Accept if $L(G_1) ⊆ L(G_2)$. Reject if $L(G_1) \not⊆ L(G_2)$.
    - Construct a decider $D$ := On input $⌊G⌋$: Run $H$ on $(G_1',G)$ where $L(G_1')=Σ^*$. Accept if $H$ accepts $(G_1',G)$. Reject if $H$ rejects $(G_1',G)$.
    - If $H$ decides CFL-Subset, then $D$ decides $\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$. $\text{ALL}_\text{CFG}$ is undecidable, so CFL-Subset is undecidable.
