## 2017-11-23

- __Theorem__: A language is Turing-recognizable if and only if some multitape Turing machine recognizes it.
- How to convert a $k$-tape TM $M$ to a single tape TM $S$?
    - Put its tape into the format that represents all $k$ tapes of $M$ s.t.
        - The content the $k$ tapes are concatenated and delimited by #.
        - Virtual head positions are marked with \*.
    - $S$ scans its tape from the first #, which marks the left-hand end, to the $(k+1)$-st #, which marks the right-hand end, in order to determine the symbols under the virtual heads.
    - $S$ makes a second pass to update the tapes according to the way that $M$'s transition function dictates.
    - If at any point $S$ moves one of the virtual heads to the right onto a #, $S$ writes a blank symbol on this tape cell and shifts the tape contents, from this cell until the rightmost #, one unit to the right.
- Synonyms:
    - Decidable = Recursive.
    - Recognizable = Semi-decidable = Recursive enumerable.
- __Theorem__: Decidable languages are closed under complement, union, intersection, concatenation, Kleene star.
    - Complement $L'$: On input $w$, run $M$ on $w$, and accept iff $M$ rejects.
    - Union $L_1 \cup L_2$: On input $w$, run $M_1$ and $M_2$ on $w$, and accept iff either accepts.
    - Intersection $L_1 \cap L_2$: On input $w$, run $M_1$ and $M_2$ on $w$, and accept iff both accepts.
    - Concatenation $L_1L_2$: On input $w$, for each of the $|w|+1$ ways to divide $w$ as $w_1w_2$: run $M_1$ on $w_1$ and $M_2$ on $w_2$, and accept if both accept. Else reject.
    - Kleene star $L^*$: On input $w$, if $w = ε$ accept. Else, for each of the $2^{|w|−1}$ ways to divide $w$ as $w_1,...,w_k$ ($w_i ≠ ε$): run $M$ on each $w_i$ and accept if $M$ accepts all. Else reject.
- __Theorem__: Recognizable languages are closed under union, intersection, concatenation, Kleene star.
- __Theorem__: If a language $L$ is recognizable and its complement $L' = \Sigma^*-L$ is also recognizable, then $L$ is decidable.
- An NTM $M$ __accepts__ $w$ if there is an accepting run, and __rejects__ $w$ if every run is rejecting.
- __Theorem__: A language is Turing-recognizable if and only if some nondeterministic Turing machine recognizes it.
