## 2017-12-21

- Definition of P, NP, coNP:
    - __P__ := $\cup_{k≥1}$TIME[$n^k$].
    - __NP__ := $\cup_{k≥1}$NTIME[$n^k$].
    - __coNP__ := {$L | Σ^*-L ∈$ NP}.
- Definition of NP-hard, NP-complete:
    - __NP-hard__: {$L | \forall L' ∈ \text{NP}, L' ≤_p L$}.
    - __NP-complete__: {$L| L ∈ \text{NP}$ and $L ∈ \text{NP-hard}$}.
- __Theorem__: Every $f(n)$ time $k$-tape TM $M$ has an equivalent $O(f^2(n))$ time single-tape TM $S$.
    - Each of the $k$ active portions on $S$ has length at most $f(n)$ because $M$ uses $f(n)$ tape cells in $f(n)$ steps.
    - To simulate each of $M$'s steps, $S$ performs two scans and possibly up to $k$ rightward shifts. Each uses $O(f(n))$ time, so the total time for $S$ to simulate one of $M$'s steps is $O(f(n))$.
    - Afterward, $S$ simulates each of the $f(n)$ steps of $M$, using $O(f(n))$ steps.
    - Thus, the entire simulation uses $O(f^2(n))$ steps.
- __Theorem__: Every $f(n)$ time single-tape NTM $N$ has an equivalent $2^{O(f(n))}$ time single-tape DTM $D$.
    - Every branch of $N$'s nondeterministic computation tree has a length of at most $f(n)$.
    - Every node in the tree can have at most $b$ children, where $b$ is the maximum number of legal choices given by $N$'s transition function.
    - Thus, the total number of leaves in the tree is at most $b^{f(n)}$.
    - Thus, the running time of $D$ is $O(f(n)b^{f(n)}) = 2^{O(f(n))}$.
- __Cook-Levin Theorem__: SAT is NP-complete.
    - Suppose that a given NP problem can be solved by the NTM $M$. For each input word $w$, we specify a Boolean expression $B$ which is satisfiable if and only if $M$ accepts $w$.
    - Consider the space-time diagram, we define the following Boolean variables:
        - $T_{i,j,k}$: True if tape cell $i$ contains symbol $j$ at step $k$ of the computation.
        - $H_{i,k}$: True if the $M$'s read/write head is at tape cell $i$ at step $k$ of the computation.
        - $Q_{q,k}$: True if $M$ is in state $q$ at step $k$ of the computation.
    - Define the Boolean expression $B$ that describes the accepting run of $M$ on $w$. Then, $B$ is satisfiable if and only if $M$ accepts $w$.
- __Theorem__: 3-SAT is NP-complete. (Intuition: SAT $≤_p$ 3-SAT)
    - Construct a binary parser tree for input formula $Φ$ and introduce a variable $y_i$ for the output of each internal node.
    - Rewrite $Φ$ as the conjunction of the root variable and clauses describing the operation of each node.
    - Convert each clause $Φ_i'$ to CNF by constructing a truth table and applying DeMorgan's Law.
- __Theorem__: 3-colorable is NP-complete. (Intuition: 3-SAT $≤_p$ 3-colorable)
    - Create triangle with node True, False, Base.
    - For each variable $x_i$, create two nodes $v_i$ and $v_i'$ connected in a triangle with common Base.
    - For each clause $C_j$ = $(a ∨ b ∨ c)$, add OR-gadget graph with input nodes $a, b, c$ and connect output node of gadget to both False and Base.
- __Theorem__: Clique is NP-complete. (Intuition: 3-SAT $≤_p$ Clique)
- __Theorem__: Independent Set is NP-complete. (Intuition: Clique $≤_p$ Independent Set)
- __Theorem__: Vertex Cover is NP-complete. (Intuition: Clique $≤_p$ Vertex Cover)
- __Theorem__: Dominating Set is NP-complete. (Intuition: Vertex Cover $≤_p$ Dominating Set)
    - Given a graph $G$, we replace each edge of $G$ by a triangle to create $G'$.
    - Subdivide each edge $(u,v)$ by the addition of a vertex, and add an edge directly from $u$ to $v$.
    - $G$ has a vertex cover of size $k$ iff the same set of vertices forms a dominating set in $G'$.
