## 2018-01-11

- Conversion (1) between RE and NFA; (2) from NFA to DFA; (3) between CFG and PDA.
- From CFG to PDA: Given a CFG $G=⟨ Σ, V, R, S ⟩$, the equivalent PDA $A = ⟨ Σ, Γ, Q, q_0, F, δ ⟩$, where $Γ = Σ \cup V \cup \{⊥\}$, $Q = \{p,q,r\}$, $q_0 = p$, $F = \{r\}$, and $δ$ is the set of:
    - $(p,ϵ,\text{pop}(ϵ)) → (q,\text{push}(S⊥))$
    - $(q,a,\text{pop}(a)) → (q,\text{push}(ϵ))\ \forall a∈Σ$
    - $(q,ϵ,\text{pop}(A)) → (q,\text{push}(w))\ \forall A → w∈ R$
    - $(q,ϵ,\text{pop}(⊥)) → (r,\text{push}(ϵ))$
- From PDA to CFG: Given a PDA $A = ⟨ Σ, Γ, Q, q_0, F, δ ⟩$, the equivalent CFG $G = ⟨ Σ, V, R, S ⟩$, where $V = \{ A_{p,q} | p,q ∈ Q \}$, and $R$ is the set of:
    - $A_{p,q} → a A_{r,s} b$ for every pair of $(p,a,\text{pop}(ϵ)) → (r, \text{push}(z))$ and $(s,b,\text{pop}(z)) → (q,\text{push}(ϵ))$
    - $A_{p,r} → a A_{q,r}$ for every $(p,a,\text{pop}(ϵ)) → (q, \text{push}(ϵ))$
    - $A_{p,q} → A_{p,r}A_{r,q}$
    - $A_{p,p} → ϵ$
- Construction of union, concatenation, Kleene star from two CFGs: Given two CFGs, $G_1 = ⟨ Σ, V_1, R_1, S_1 ⟩$ and $G_2 = ⟨ Σ, V_2, R_2, S_2 ⟩$,
    - $G = G_1∪G_2$ has $Σ=Σ,V=V_1∪V_2∪\{S\}, R=R_1∪R_2∪\{S→S_1,S→S_2\},S=S$.
    - $G = G_1G_2$ has $Σ=Σ,V=V_1∪V_2∪\{S\}, R=R_1∪R_2∪\{S→S_1S_2\},S=S$.
    - $G = G_1^*$ has $Σ=Σ,V=V_1∪\{S\}, R=R_1∪\{S→SS_1,S→ε\},S=S$.
- __Pumping lemma__ for RL: If $A$ is a regular language, then there is a number $p$ (the __pumping length__) where if $s ∈ A$ and $|s| ≥ p$, then $s$ may be divided into three pieces, $s = xyz$, satisfying the following conditions: (1) $\forall i ≥ 0$, $xy^iz ∈ A$; (2) $|y| > 0$; (3) $|xy| ≤ p$.
- __Pumping lemma__ for CFL: If $A$ is a context-free language, then there is a number $p$ (the __pumping length__) where if $s ∈ A$ and $|s| ≥ p$, then $s$ may be divided into five pieces, $s = uvxyz$, satisfying the following conditions: (1) $\forall i ≥ 0$, $uv^ixy^iz ∈ A$; (2) $|vy| > 0$; (3) $|vxy| ≤ p$.
- Conversion (1) from multi-tape TM to single tape TM; (2) from NTM to DTM.
- __Closure__:
    - RL: complement, union, intersection, concatenation, Kleene star.
    - CFL: union, concatenation, Kleene star.
    - Decidable language: complement, union, intersection, concatenation, Kleene star.
    - Recognizable language: union, intersection, concatenation, Kleene star.
- Suppose $A ≤_M B$ holds:
    - $A ≤_T B$ holds.
    - If $B$ is recognizable, then $A$ is recognizable.
    - If $A$ is not recognizable, then $B$ is not recognizable.
- Suppose $A ≤_T B$ holds:
    - $A ≤_M B$ does not necessarily hold.
    - If $B$ is decidable, then $A$ is decidable.
    - If $A$ is undecidable, then $B$ is undecidable.
- __Theorem__: $A ≤_M B$ if and only if $A' ≤_M B'$.
- __Theorem__: A language $L$ is decidable if and only if $L$ is recognizable and co-recognizable.
- __Theorem__: $A$<sub>TM</sub> = $\{(M,w)|w ∈ L(M)\}$ is undecidable, recognizable, not co-recognizable.
- __Theorem__: HALT = $\{⌊M⌋|M$ halts on $⌊M⌋\}$ is undecidable, recognizable, not co-recognizable.
- __Theorem__: HALT<sub>0</sub> = $\{⌊M⌋|⌊M⌋ ∈ L(M)\}$ is undecidable, recognizable, not co-recognizable.
- __Theorem__: EMPTY<sub>TM</sub> = $\{⌊M⌋|L(M) = ∅\}$ is  undecidable.
    - Construct $M'(M,w)$: On input $x$: Accept if $M$ accepts $w$. Reject, otherwise.
- __Theorem__: ALL<sub>TM</sub> = $\{⌊M⌋|L(M) = Σ^*\}$ is  undecidable.
    - Construct $M'(M,w)$: On input $x$: Accept if $M$ accepts $w$. Reject, otherwise.
- __Theorem__: $L = \{⌊M⌋|L(M) = s\}$ and $L = \{⌊M⌋|L(M) ∋ s\}$ are undecidable.
    - Construct $M'(M,w)$: On input $x$: Accept if $x = s$ and $M$ accepts $w$. Reject, otherwise.
- __Theorem__: RL<sub>TM</sub> = $\{⌊M⌋|L(M)$ is regular} is undecidable.
    - Construct $M'(M,w)$: On input $x$: Accept if $x = 0^n1^n$ or $M$ accepts $w$. Reject, otherwise.
- __Theorem__: CFL<sub>TM</sub> = $\{⌊M⌋|L(M)$ is context free} undecidable.
    - Construct $M'(M,w)$: On input $x$: Accept if $x = 0^n1^n0^n$ or $M$ accepts $w$. Reject, otherwise.
